18 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     The Board of Directors (“Board”) of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) presents this Statement to
     provide shareholders and investors with an overview of the corporate governance practices during the financial year
     2021 in accordance with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).

     This Statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which provides the
     details on how the Company has applied each Practice as set out in the MCCG. The CG Report is available on the
     Company’s website at www.cck.com.my.

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

     I. Board Responsibilities

             The Board is always mindful of its responsibilities to the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders.
             The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies for the Group and ensure that long-term goals and
             short-term objectives are met with sufficient resources in place.

             To ensure optimum decision-making, the positions of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are held
             by different individuals. Their responsibilities and accountability are clearly defined in the Board Charter. The
             Board Charter also sets out authority, roles and responsibilities of the Board, Board Committees and individual
             Directors. The Code of Conduct is in place to govern good business conduct and healthy corporate culture
             so as to support long-term sustainable success. Whistleblowing Policy is also in place to enable individuals
             to raise concerns of improper conduct and wrong doing. The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance approach
             against all forms of bribery and corruption and has put in place an Anti-Bribery Corruption Policy.

             The Board is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, who provide sound
             advice in relation to governance, regulatory requirements, policies and procedures. The Board members have
             full and unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries.

     II. Board Composition

             The Company is led and managed by an experienced Board comprising ten (10) members. The Non-
             Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Vice Chairman, the Group Managing Director, three (3)
             Executive Directors and four (4) Independent Directors. 40% of the Board members consist of Independent
             Directors with necessary experience, skills, qualifications and other core competencies to bring balanced and
             objectivity to the decisions making of the Board.

             The Board recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board and is satisfied that the current size and
             composition of the Board is considered adequate for decision making in terms of age and ethnicity, as well as
             skills, experience, expertise and perspectives.

             The Board has in place a policy on gender diversity in the Nomination and Election Process of the Board
             members, to ensure that women candidates are sought in its recruitment exercise.

             The Board is of the opinion that long-serving Independent Directors can continue to provide unbiased and
             independent views to the Board. Their experiences, expertise and networking is valuable in ensuring the
             Company’s continued performance.

             The Board, through the Nomination Committee (“NC”) conducted an annual assessment of effectiveness of the
             Board, the Board Committees, and individual Directors during the financial year under review. All assessment
             carried out by the NC were properly documented, summarised and reported to the Board. The Board is satisfied
             that they had been effective in the discharge of their overall functions and duties.
                                                                                                                              19 ANNUAL REPORT //

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (Cont’d)

III. Remuneration

        The Board has established a Remuneration Policy for the Directors, which is reviewed periodically. The
        Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration of Directors annually to ensure the remuneration packages
        remain appropriate, competitive and in alignment with the prevalent market rate so as to attract and retain
        individuals with high caliber.

        During the financial year 2021, the Remuneration Committee met once. They reviewed and recommended to
        the Board the remuneration packages of Directors, taking into consideration commitment and responsibilities
        assumed, experience and skills required, performance of the members of the Board, as well as the performance
        of the Group.

        The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee is made available on the Company’s website.

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit Committee

        The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises four (4) Independent Directors and one (1) Non-Executive Non-
        Independent Director. The AC is chaired by an Independent Director. None of the AC members was former
        audit partners who is required to observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being appointed
        to the AC.

        The composition of the AC is reviewed by the NC annually and recommended to the Board for approval. The
        NC ensures all AC members are financially literate, possess appropriate level of expertise and experience, and
        have strong understanding of the Group’s business. The AC members keep abreast of relevant developments
        in accounting, auditing and governance. The Board is satisfied with the performance of the AC and its members
        in discharged their functions for the financial year under review.

        The AC oversees the financial reporting, ensures the quarterly and annual financial statements are prepared in
        accordance with the provision of the Companies Act 2016, applicable approved accounting standards and the
        Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad so as to give a true and fair view of the
        state of affairs, results and cash flows of the Group for the financial year 2021.

        The AC assesses suitability, objectivity and independence of the External Auditors annually and is satisfied with
        the competency and independency of the External Auditors for the financial year under review.

        Further details on the AC are disclosed in the Audit Committee Report as outlined on pages 32 to 33 of this
        Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

        The Board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control System
        (“System”) of the Group through the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), AC and NC.

        The RMC comprises all five (5) Executive Directors. The Risk Management Department assists RMC to ensure
        adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management practices. The Internal Audit Department assists the AC
        to ensure the internal control function is operated effectively and satisfactorily.

        The Board is satisfied with the performance of the RMC and AC in relation to risk management and internal
        audit function for the financial year under review. The Board is of the view that the Group has in place a sound
        System to safeguard the Group’s assets, as well as shareholders’ investment, and the interests of customers,
        employees and other stakeholders.

        The details of the System are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 29
        to 31 of this Annual Report.
20 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (Cont’d)

     PRINCIPLE C : INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                             STAKEHOLDERS

      I. Engagement with Stakeholders

              The Board ensures that communication with the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders is
              transparent, timely and with quality disclosures. The Company engages with its shareholders and other
              stakeholders through various platforms, including announcements made via Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
              (“Bursa Securities”), disclosures on the Company’s website, meeting with institutional prospective investors
              and questions invited in general meetings.

              The investor relations activities serve as an important communication channel with the Company’s shareholders
              and investment community. Stakeholders are encouraged to channel their concerns to the email address at
              investor@cck.com.my.

      II. Conduct of General Meetings

              Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for communicating between the Company and its
              shareholders. In line with the best corporate governance practice, the notice of AGM and annual report were
              dispatched to shareholders 28 days before the date of the AGM in 2021.

              The Company had conducted a virtual 25th AGM which was held on 25 May 2021 by leveraging technology. All
              the ten (10) Directors were present at the AGM. The Chairmen of the Board Committees together with the top
              management and external auditors were present to address queries during the AGM. The Chairman briefed
              the shareholders of their rights to raise questions and vote. Shareholders were also briefed on the voting
              procedures by the poll administrator prior to the poll voting by using remote participation and voting facilities
              at https://tiih.online. The vote cast and poll results were validated by the independent scrutineer. The poll
              results were announced to Bursa Securities on the same day of the AGM. Questions raised together with the
              responses were recorded in the Key Matters Discussed, which was uploaded on the Company’s website.

      This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 6 April 2022.
                                           21 ANNUAL REPORT //

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

Dear Stakeholders,

CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (‘CCK”) and its group of companies (“CCK Group”) recognise that sustainability
is a core component towards the future of the CCK Group. The Group’s sustainability efforts are underpinned by
mechanisms enhancing the values of the following –

    Risk      Increase           Unlock
reduction   profitability       growth
                            opportunities

Emphasizing on developing Economic, Environmental and Social (EES) goals, the Group aims to remain viable and
sustainable for the benefit of the environment in which we operate and, our customers and our many stakeholders.
A sustainable future is aligned with the 2030 ambition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the
United Nations in September 2015.

OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY

Recognising the importance of sustainability to the future of CCK Group, the Management took the bold step to
revamp our existing sustainability methodology. In 2021, the entire management team including the Group Managing
Director participated in a programme organised by the Malaysian Investor Relations Association (“MIRA”) entitled
“The Sustainability Accelerator”.

A new approach was identified whereby the Group will embrace sustainability as one of the main business drivers and
move towards an integrated strategy and reporting through a phased approach over the next 5 years.

Compliance         Beyond   Integrated
                compliance   strategy

            WE ARE HERE

                   5 YEARS
                   PHASED
                APPROACH
22 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

SCOPE

CCK has been providing quality fresh chicken and frozen products to our customers spanning East Malaysia for more
than 60 years. Subsequently, CCK ventured into production and retailing in Indonesia in 2011. CCK’s business is
divided into 4 segments namely retail, poultry, prawn and food service. The sustainability initiatives are focused on
the retail and poultry segments, as these are our core business components and major revenue contributors.

          Retail segment                                           Poultry segment
• CCK Fresh Mart Retail Stores                                          • Broilers
                                                                         • Layers
        • Wholesale Stores                                             • Breeders
   • CCKLocal Supermarkets

CCK’s approach to sustainability revolves around the Group’s Vision and Mission Statements and governed by our
Core Values –

 OUR VISION                     OUR MISSION                        CORE VALUES

The Food People of              The provision of quality           Our Vision & Mission
Choice                          food, ensuring customer            are achieved through
                                satisfaction, financial            the core values of
                                sustainability and                 continuous quality,
                                responsible social and             financial sustainability,
                                environmental interaction.         customer satisfaction
                                Achieved through                   and social and
                                integrated solutions               environmental
                                involving innovative,              responsibility
                                integrous teams of
                                committed people

SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE

         Board of Directors     Sustainability Steering Committee   Sustainability Working Group

• Formulates sustainable         • Oversees implementation of      • Implements the strategies set
     business strategies               sustainability strategies        out by the steering committee

• Monitors business strategies   • Sets targets                    • Set up processes and controls
                                 • Evaluates risks
                                 • Oversees the working group      • Reports on targets sets by
                                                                        steering committee

The risk management and internal audit teams play a valuable role in their contribution to the sustainability working
group.
                                                                                          23 ANNUAL REPORT //

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT

During 2021, the Sustainability Steering Committee reviewed and performed a materiality assessment through a
series of meetings and questionnaires. This involved not only the departmental heads but also relevant staff in each
key area of the business. Thereafter other important stakeholders were also engaged to obtain valuable inputs
including employees, suppliers, customers, financiers, the community we operate in and relevant government
authorities. Through this process, 14 material matters to the CCK Group’s EES were identified and prioritised, as per
the matrix illustration below -

                                          Materiality Matrix                              1. Company presence,
                                                                                                  stability & growth
                        7.00                             10                  61
                        6.00                              9                    32         2. Financial performance
                        5.00                        13                    78
                        4.00                                                              3. Operational excellence
                        3.00                                              11 5
                        2.00                                                              4. Company cost cutting
Importance to business  1.00                    14                    12                          efforts
                        0.00
                                                                                4         5. Employee engagement
                              0.00
                                    2.00  4.00      6.00                  8.00     10.00  6. Employee well-being

                                          Importance to stakeholders                      7. Integrating sustainability
                                                                                                  into the business

                                                                                          8. Learning and development

                                                                                          9. Talent acquisition and
                                                                                                  retention

                                                                                          10. Technology and
                                                                                                  digitalisation

                                                                                          11. Risk management

                                                                                          12. Energy management

                                                                                          13. Waste management and
                                                                                                  other environmental
                                                                                                  issues

                                                                                          14. Recycling

Through the materiality assessment process, we identified 6 core matters for our Group –

     Company presence, stability and growth
     Socially responsible supply chain
     Waste Management and other environmental issues
     Talent acquisition, development and retention
     Community relationships
     Technology and Digitalization
24 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

In these challenging times, proactive stakeholder engagement is essentially built on trust and accountability ensuring
that an open line of communication is kept to manage our various stakeholders’ expectations, concerns, interests and
feedback.

       Stakeholders                 Key areas of focus                      Methodology
Shareholders
                        • Profitability                    • Annual General Meetings
                        • Dividends                        • Annual reports
                        • Return on investment             • Quarterly reports
                                                           • Press releases
Customers/Suppliers     • Consistency in our quality of    • Investors’ briefings
and Industry Partners        products and services
                                                           • Site visits to suppliers premises
Employees               • Affordability                    • Supplier evaluation forms
                        • Payment terms and timeliness     • Customer feedback
Government Authorities                                     • Customer satisfaction surveys
and Regulators               of payments
                        • Process and product              • Skills fit for roles
Community                                                  • Leadership training
(non-government              innovations                   • Career Advancement Programs
organisations,                                             • Coaching
associations,           • Providing meaningful work        • Performance management
academia)               • Career development
                        • Training                         • Periodic compliance audits
                        • Talent management                • Compliance and certification
                        • Recruitment selection
                        • Health and safety                     exercises
                                                           • Briefings and trainings
                        • Certifications
                        • Industry best practises          • Educational site visits
                        • Compliance with laws and         • Waste water treatment
                                                           • Sponsor meals for needy schools
                             regulations

                        • Branding and reputation
                        • Healthy and sustainable

                             communities
                        • Environmental sustainability
                        • Partnerships and joint ventures

MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY

1. Economy

1.1 Company presence, stability and growth

		  Economic performance is the generation of sustainable financial and economic returns whilst creating
    long-term values for stakeholders to ensure sustainability of our business. Maintaining and building on
    our economic growth is crucial for CCK’s business continuity.

		  A significant component of CCK’s economic performance is derived from profitability. This is measured
    regularly against budgets and KPIs. A full breakdown and detailed report on the economic performance
    of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 is appended in this Annual Report.
                                                                        25 ANNUAL REPORT //

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

1.2 Socially responsible supply chain

		  CCK operates one of the largest networks of retail stores and supermarkets supported by a fully integrated
    poultry chain in East Malaysia. Our Indonesian operations include 2 production and logistics centres in
    Jakarta and Pontianak, respectively.

		  As a food source provider, it is essential that the Group maintain the highest standard of food safety,
    quality control and accountability. This is carried out through a series of management and operational
    practices ensuring compliance with local laws and regulations, industrial practices and best practices.
    Certifications for various operations are listed below -

                  Business operations                         Malaysia           Indonesia
    Chicken abattoirs
                                                    • HALAL             • HALAL
    Food processing factories                       • VHM               • NKV
    Chicken farms                                   • MeSTI

                                                    • HALAL
                                                    • HACCP

                                                    • MyGAP

		Notes

		  “Halal” Certification obtained from the respective state Islamic authorities.
		
		  “VHM” is the Veterinary Health Mark issued by the Department of Veterinary Services, Sarawak.
		
		  “MeSTI” relates to Safe Food Industry Responsbility certified by the Ministry of Health.

		  “HACCP” refers to Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points certification.

    ‘MyGAP” refers to Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices certification issued by the respective
    states’ Department of Veterinary Services.

    “NKV” is the Veterinary Control Number (Nomor Kontrol Veterinar) issued by the Pejabat Otoritas
    Veteriner in Indonesia.

2. Environment

We recognise the impact our operations have on
our environment. CCK takes environmental issues
seriously and we work closely with environmental
regulators ensuring compliance with relevant
standards at all times to reduce the impact on the
environment.

CCK has set up an Environmental Management
System (EMS) in our main abattoir in Kuching. The
EMS is a collaborative and systematic approach
to manage environmental risks and comply with
environmental regulations and standards, and also
government regulations. The EMS is not solely
an internal framework but also incorporates views
from out stakeholders, in particular our corporate
clients and government regulators.
26 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

2.1 Waste management and other environmental issues

                         Strategies                 Commitments                       Methods
                  Abattoir
             1. Waste water               1. Treatment of waste water    1. Regular testing of treated
                  management                   from slaughter process         effluent for biochemical
             2. Industrial effluent                                           oxygen demand (BOD),
                  management              2. Release of effluent              chemical oxygen
             3. Air pollution management       discharge per                  demand (COD) and total
                                               Environmental Quality          suspended solids (TSS)
                  Chicken farms                (Industrial Effluent)
             1. Biosecurity management         Regulations 2009          2. Stack monitoring for
                                                                              clean air control
                                          3. Ensure dust emissions
                                               meet parameters set       1. 98.5% of our chicken
                                               out in the Environmental       sheds are closed houses
                                               Quality (Clean Air)
                                               Regulations 2014          2. MyGAP certifications
                                                                              and compliance with
                                          1. Prevention of disease            requirements
                                               outbreak
                                                                         3. Pest control
                                          2. Minimise odour and noise    4. Prohibit external vehicles
                                               pollutions
                                                                              from entering the farm
                                                                              areas.
                                                                         5. All farm vehicles
                                                                              are wheel-dipped in
                                                                              disinfectant and sprayed
                                                                              before entering the
                                                                              farms.
                                                                         6. Farm isolation and
                                                                              distancing between
                                                                              various farms

3. Social

        3.1  Talent acquisition, development and retention
		           The success of our business is dependent on our most valuable asset, namely, our people, and their
             correct acquisition, development, deployment and retention, developing skilled agile teams to engage
             efficiently in a rapidly evolving work environment. With a staff-establishment of more than 2000 employees
             across the CCK Group, we are a recognized source of stable employment.

		           CCK Group conducts training courses for talent development based on training needs analyses performed
             during the yearly staff appraisals and agreed on strategic objectives of the Group. The modes of the
             training are in-house, external seminars and short briefings. The Training Department also monitors
             Continuing Professional Development (CPD) hours of staff.
                                                                     27 ANNUAL REPORT //

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

		  For the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the following training courses were provided –

		

    Department                                 Training course name

    • Production                  • Food handler course
    • Retail                      • Crisis Management
    • Operations                  • Enforcement of Approved PPE & Its Application
                                  • Good Manufacturing Practices
                                  • Food Fraud & Food Defence
                                  • Kickstart : The Art of Building Rapport
                                  • Laboratory Quality Control
                                  • Cold Chain Management
                                  • Halal Certification
                                  • Safety and Health training

    • Management                  • Pandemic Risk Management System
    • Administrative departments  • Crisis Management
                                  • Malaysian Tax Budget Conference 2022
                                  • Companies Act 2016
                                  • Managing Industrial Relations Effectively
                                  • Recent MASB Developments
                                  • Understanding Big Data
                                  • The Rise of Edge Computing
                                  • Various IT related topics
                                  • Safety and Health training

		  CCK has developed and successfully implemented The Career Advancement Program (CAP) for the
    CCK Fresh Mart retail stores. This program is designed to provide a system within the retail stores
    network giving all retail crews the opportunity to grow within the organisation.

    Attract &                       Reward          Offer
    Promote                       Excellence   Opportunities
                                  in Praetice

                  Career Advancement Program
28 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

        3.2  Community Relationships
		           CCK Group has been in business for more than 30 years and during this time, we have built strong ties
             within the communities we operate in. The onslaught of the pandemic has brought hardship to many
             people. Much of our contributions to the community in the past year were to ease the burdens of those
             needy families and families in lockdown areas. These are some of those we helped in 2021 –

             CCK contributed fresh chickens to the
             needy families living at the low cost
             housing flats of the Kuching Municipal
             Council at an event sponsored by the
             Majlis Bandaraya Kuching Selatan.

             Fresh chickens for 120 families under
             lockdown at Desa Wira, Kuching. In
             addition, we also contributed to 155
             families in a Betong longhouse under
             lockdown.

                                                                                        Donations of fresh chicken to the needy
                                                                                        at Kota Samarahan, Kuching

                                                                                        CCK continued to contribute food
                                                                                        items to the students of SMK Kampung
                                                                                        Nangka under the school’s food
                                                                                        programme 2021. This has been and
                                                                                        continues to be one of CCK’s CSR
                                                                                        projects over the past few years.

TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY

CCK’s sustainability journey continues as it is increasingly expressed through an integrated strategy towards
a sustainable business future for all stakeholders. As these initiatives evolve, current practices are reviewed and
modified, as needed, and together these are embedded and synthesized into the existing work culture.
The Board of Directors and Sustainability Steering Committee will continuously monitor and review sustainable
processes and targets with the ultimate aim of bringing long term value creation for all concerned.
This Sustainability Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 6 April 2022.
                                                                                                                              29 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control in compliance with Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Listing Requirements”) and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors
of Listed Issuers (“Guidelines”), the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance and Corporate Governance Guide.

A sound risk management framework and internal control system (“System”) is embedded into the culture of the
Group, which is responsive to changes in the business and market environment, economy, as well as the world
situation. The System is to safeguard the Group’s assets and shareholders’ investments as well as the interests of
customers, employees and other stakeholders.

BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY

The Board is committed to maintain a sound System and affirms its overall responsibility for the System of the Group
by continuously reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the System. The task of scrutinising the System is taken
up by the Board Committees, i.e. Audit Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).

The System covers strategy, operations, finance, information technology, regulatory compliance, sustainability and
external environment. The System is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks threatening, and achieving
the Group’s strategies and business objectives within the risk tolerance level established by the Board. The System
provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against any material misstatement, losses or fraud.

The Board has received assurance from the Group Managing Director that the System of the Group is operating
adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on the System adopted by the Group. The System does not
cover associated company as the management is not under the control of the Board. However, the Group’s interest
is served through representation on the board of the associated company.

The Board has reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the System through the AC and RMC. Risk Reports
and Internal Audit Reports were reviewed by the RMC and AC respectively in the quarterly meetings held during the
financial year 2021. Necessary actions have been and are being taken to remedy significant weaknesses identified
from the review.

Risk-related matters and internal control issues which warranted the attention of the Board were recommended by the
RMC and AC to the Board for its deliberation and approval, decisions made within the RMC’s and AC’s purview were
escalated to the Board for its notation.

RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

The principal responsibilities of the RMC is to establish and monitor the Group’s risk management framework, develop
process to identify, assess, monitor, manage and report on all key business risks, and to provide guidance and
strategic direction to the business units on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system in order to
achieve the Group’s objectives and strategies within the acceptable risk appetite.

The RMC, with assistance of Risk Management Department (“RMD”), ensures effective and consistent adoption of
risk management practices in the Group. The staff of RMD meets with the risk owners of the major divisional units
and business units twice a year, to identify and evaluate risks concerned so as to establish risk profile of the Group.

The level of risk tolerance is expressed in the risk rating matrix, which is scaled in accordance to the likelihood of the
risk and the impact on revenue, profit and cost. Risk parameter as a guide for determining the risk impact is updated
annually in accordance with the plans and budgets of the Company and its major subsidiaries. Once the risk level is
determined, risk owners will carry out mitigating actions within appropriate timeframe in accordance to the proposed
action plans. Risk owners will update their existing risk profile on an on-going basis with regard to the progress,
emerging risk, new strategies and the outcome.
30 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

    (Cont’d)

      The RMC reviews and deliberates the risk profile of the Group in the RMC meetings held quarterly. RMC ensures
      that the overall risks are adequately identified and managed within an acceptable risk appetite. Critical risks, together
      with its impact, mitigating actions and improved results, are presented to the Board. The Group’s significant risks for
      the financial year under review includes farm harvesting, factory performance, market competition, quality target and
      COVID-19 pandemic impact.

      INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESS

      Audit

      The AC, with assistance of Internal Auditors, is tasked by the Board with duty of reviewing and appraising the
      effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Group in accordance with the objectives of the Group.

      In carrying out its responsibilities, the AC relies significantly on the support of the Internal Audit Department. The
      Internal Auditors focus their functions on the major business units based on an annual audit plan approved by the AC
      in accordance to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The Internal Auditors
      uphold the principles of acting in independency, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality and competency. The AC also
      reviews and deliberates on any matters relating to internal control which was highlighted by the External Auditors.

      Meetings and discussions of Internal Auditors were held with Head of Departments and employees concerned,
      to identify, discuss and resolve key operational issues. Where any significant weakness has been identified, the
      Internal Auditors together with the management will recommend corrective measures to improve the internal control
      accordingly. The audit issues, findings and corrective measures were compiled into audit reports for deliberation in
      the AC meetings held quarterly. Follow up audits are also taken to assess the status of implementation thereof, and
      significant unresolved audit issues are escalated to the Board for deliberation.

      Any cases of fraud, whether actual or suspected, are required to be reported to the Chairman of the AC and the Group
      Managing Director immediately upon discovered. Any significant incident concerning security of cash, information
      and record keeping, as well as regulatory compliance are also required to be informed to the Head of Internal Audit
      Department upon discovered.

      The AC reviews the audit plans and reports of the External Auditors annually to ensure competencies and suitability
      of the External Auditors.

      Compliance audits are conducted by auditors of relevant industry certification bodies on subsidiaries which are
      accredited with various quality, health and safety, and environment certificates. The results are reported to the
      management of the Group.

      Authority and Responsibilities

      The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees with clearly defined authorities and responsibilities in
      respective committees’ Terms of Reference.

      Business performance of the Group is reviewed in monthly operation meetings and quarterly meetings of the Board.
      Quarterly results of the Group are compared against budgeted figures and results of corresponding period last year.

      Policies and Procedures

      The Group has put in place a set of standard operating procedures named Corporate Management System (CMS), to
      ensure the effectiveness of internal control, to mitigate risk, and to achieve the performance and targets of the Group.
      These procedures are continuously reviewed, monitored, updated and improved by the steering committee.

      Insurance

      Sufficient insurance coverage and physical safeguards on major assets are in place to ensure that the assets of the
      Group are adequately covered against any mishap that could result in material loss to the Group.
       
                                                                                                                              31 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

(Cont’d)

REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT
The Board has ensured that this Statement is reviewed by External Auditors pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the
Listing Requirements. The External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention which
causes them to believe that the Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines,
nor is the Statement factually inaccurate.

CONCLUSION
The Board is satisfied that the System is efficient and adequate to meet the Group’s strategies and objectives for the
financial year under review and up to the date of approval of this Statement. The Board will continue to ensure the
effectiveness and adequacy of the System.

This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 6 April 2022.
32 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

The Board of Directors (“Board”) presents this Audit Committee Report which provides insights into the manner in
which the Audit Committee (“AC”) discharged its functions for the Group during the financial year ended 2021.

COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE

The AC consists of the following five (5) members. Five (5) AC meetings were held during the financial year and were
attended by members as follows:

AC Members                                Attendance
                                                5/5
Chairman:			
Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang            5/5
                                                5/5
(Independent Director)                          5/5
                                                5/5
Members:
Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk 		

(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Bong Wei Leong

(Independent Director)

Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen

(Independent Director)

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng

(Independent Director)

FUNCTION

The Board is satisfied that the AC and its members have discharged their functions, duties and responsibilities in
accordance with the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC. The term of office and performance of AC and its members
are reviewed by the Nomination Committee annually. Summary of the TOR of AC are available at the Company’s
website at www.cck.com.my.

The Heads of Finance and Internal Audit together with Company Secretaries attended the meetings held during the
year. External auditors also attended meetings upon invitation of the AC.

All proceedings and deliberations in terms of the issues discussed, and recommendations and decisions made at the
AC meetings are recorded in the minutes by the Company Secretaries and confirmed by the AC at the next meeting.
Significant matters discussed at each meeting were reported to the Board by the AC Chairman.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

The AC carried out the following activities during the financial year:

(a) reviewed and deliberated the quarterly and annual audited financial statements to ensure that the financial
        reporting and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the financial positions of the Group and in compliance
        with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, the requirements
        of the Companies Act 2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
        prior to submission to the Board for consideration and approval;

(b) reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that might arise within the Group, including
        any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raised questions of management integrity as well as
        the adequacy of the disclosure in the quarterly and annual audited financial statement, prior to the Board’s
        consideration and approval;

(c) reviewed and approved the annual audit plans of the internal auditors and external auditors to ensure sufficient
        of resources, competencies and coverage of areas to be audited;

(d) reviewed and deliberated the audit reports of the internal auditors and external auditors, which included the
        major findings and recommendations with respect to the system and control weaknesses, and management’s
        responses thereto;
                                 33 ANNUAL REPORT //

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (Cont’d)

(e) met with the external auditors and internal auditors twice respectively without the presence of the other Directors
        and employees of the Group to review key issues;

(f) assessed the performance, suitability and independence of external auditors, and recommended re-appointment
        of external auditors and the proposed fees for the Board’s approval;

(g) reviewed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit function;
(h) reviewed and deliberated the comparison of actual against budgeted results on quarterly basis;
(i) reviewed the process of identifying and recruitment of senior audit staff and revised term of employment and

        agreement for internal audit staff;
(j) reviewed the Audit Committee Report and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control prior to the

        Board’s consideration and approval; and
(k) reviewed the performance of the Group and made recommendation for appropriate corrective measures to the

        Board.

INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

The Group’s Internal Audit Function is carried out by an independent in-house Internal Audit Department (“IAD”), whose
principal responsibility is to assist the AC in discharging its duties and responsibilities by undertaking independent,
objective, regular and systematic review of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that
such system continues to operate effectively and satisfactorily within the Group. The IAD reports directly to the AC.

The IAD is led by Ms. Hii Yong Sing who was appointed in August 2021. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accountancy
and Finance (Hons) with vast experience in internal auditing. Currently she is assisted by eight (8) other staff, five (5)
of whom possess tertiary qualifications in the fields of Business Administration, Accountancy, Management (Policy
and Social Environmental) and Science (Chemistry); three (3) other staff have secondary qualifications of SPM and
STPM with experiences in internal auditing.

All of them are free from any relationships with the Group, thus avoiding any conflict of interest, which could impair
their objectivity and independence.

The IAD carried out the activities based on the risk-based approach Annual Audit Plan which was approved by the AC.
Ad-hoc audits and special investigative assignment would be performed when required. The audit conducted during
the year covered warehouses, trading, retail outlets, as well as retail outlet’s image and hygiene.

The internal audit reports are presented to the AC quarterly, incorporating findings and recommendations to rectify
any weaknesses and to enhance controls, together with corrective measures to be taken within an agreed timeline.
Follow-up audits on significant engagements and relevant recommendations are conducted to ensure that corrective
and preventive measures have been implemented accordingly with the intention to solve any underlying problems
and to improve the processes and performance.

The total costs incurred by IAD in discharging its functions and responsibilities in 2021 amounted to RM493,571
(compared to RM455,142 in 2020).

Further details of the Company’s internal control functions are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of this Annual Report.

This Report is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 6 April 2022.
34 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

    FOR PREPARING THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
     each financial year are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
     Reporting Standards, the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 (“CA”) and the Main Market Listing Requirements
     of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

     The Directors are also responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
     position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2021 and of their financial performance and cash flows
     of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.

     In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensure that the Management has:
     • adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
     • made estimates and judgements that are reasonable and prudent; and
     • prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.

     The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the Company maintain accounting records which
     disclose the financial position of the Group and of the Company with reasonable accuracy and which enable them to
     ensure that the financial statements comply with the CA.

     The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
     the Group and of the Company, and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

     This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 6 April 2022.
FINANCIAL
S TAT E M E N T S

36  Directors’ Report

41  Statement by Directors

41  Statutory Declaration

42  Independent Auditors’ Report

46  Statements of Financial Position

48  Statements of Profit or Loss and Other

    Comprehensive Income

50  Statements of Changes in Equity

53  Statements of Cash Flows

56  Notes to the Financial Statements
36 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2021.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management services.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have been no
significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

RESULTS

                                              The Group   The Company
                                                   RM            RM
                                                                8,858,317
Profit after taxation for the financial year  24,476,259
                                                                8,858,317
Attributable to:-		

Owners of the Company                         24,476,259

DIVIDENDS
The Company paid a first and final single-tier dividend of 2 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM12,532,894
in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020 on 18 June 2021. The dividend was approved by the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 25 May 2021.

At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a first and final single-tier dividend of 1.25 sen per ordinary share
amounting to RM7,883,985 in respect of the current financial year will be proposed for shareholders' approval. The
financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by
the shareholders, will be accounted for as a liability in the financial year ending 31 December 2022.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.

ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year:-

(a) there were no changes in the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company; and

(b) there were no issues of debentures by the Company.

TREASURY SHARES
As at 31 December 2021, the Company held as treasury shares a total of 4,074,100 of its issued and fully paid-up
ordinary shares. The treasury shares are held at a carrying amount of RM2,432,449. The details of the treasury
shares are disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements.
                            37 ANNUAL REPORT //

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

During the financial year, no options were granted by the Company to any person to take up any unissued shares in
the Company.

BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance
for impairment losses on receivables and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate allowance had been made for impairment losses on receivables.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that would require the further writing off of
bad debts, or the additional allowance for impairment losses on receivables in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company.

CURRENT ASSETS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable steps
to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business, including their
value as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company, have been written down to an amount
which they might be expected so to realise.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed
to the current assets in the financial statements misleading.

 
VALUATION METHODS

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render adherence
to the existing methods of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.

CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES

At the date of this report, there does not exist:-

(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year
        which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.

No contingent or other liability of the Group and of the Company has become enforceable or is likely to become
enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors,
will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations when they fall due.

CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial
statements misleading.
38 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

     ITEMS OF AN UNUSUAL NATURE

     The results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not, in the opinion of the
     directors, substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

     There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
     transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the directors, to affect substantially the
     results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

      
     DIRECTORS

     The names of directors who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-

     Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
     Tiong Chiong Hiiung
     Chong Shaw Fui
     Tiong Chiong Soon
     Lau Liong Kii
     Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng
     Kueh Chung Peng
     Datuk Temenggong Janggu Anak Banyang
     Datu Haji Putit Bin Matzen
     Bong Wei Leong

     The names of directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date of this
     report, not including those directors mentioned above, are as follows:-

     Chai Min Diang
     Chong Min Fui
     Chong Pio
     Chong Su Khiun
     Ethan Tiong Ing Hung
     Joseph Tang Chiod Sui
     Kapitan Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien
     Penghulu Lau Hieng Wuong
     Kueh Tiong Ching
     Lau Pek Kii
     Ung Yiik Hieng
     Wong Hua Tiing
     Tiong Chiong Kuong
     Tiong Chiong Hong
     Wong Hua King
     Nelly (Appointed on 8 March 2022)
                                                                                 39 ANNUAL REPORT //

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of directors’ shareholdings, the interests of directors holding office at the end of the financial
year in shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year are as follows:-

                                                   Number of Ordinary Shares

                                      At			At

                                      1.1.2021     Bought     Sold               31.12.2021

The Company				

				

Direct Interests				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk           34,671,288           -                  -  34,671,288

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                   1,699,624            -                  -  1,699,624

Tiong Chiong Soon                     1,515,360            -                  -  1,515,360

Lau Liong Kii                         14,740,752           -                  -  14,740,752

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng     521,428              -                  -  521,428

Kueh Chung Peng                       11,420,664           -                  -  11,420,664

Datuk Temenggong Janggu Anak Banyang  198,400              -                  -  198,400

				

Indirect Interests 				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk           244,185,380          -                  - 244,185,380

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                   244,567,888          -                  - 244,567,888

Chong Shaw Fui                        33,611,272           -  (10,000) 33,601,272

Kueh Chung Peng                       4,107,400    200,000                    -  4,307,400

Tiong Chiong Soon                     241,596,156          -                  - 241,596,156

Lau Liong Kii                         44,284,052           -  (1,003,700) 43,280,352

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng     3,312,388            -                  -  3,312,388

By virtue of their shareholdings in the Company, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Tiong Chiong
Soon are deemed to have interests in shares in its related corporations during the financial year to the extent of the
Company’s interests, in accordance with Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

The other directors holding office at the end of the financial year had no interest in shares of the Company or its
related corporations during the financial year.

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than directors’ remuneration as disclosed in Note 34(a) to the financial statements) by reason of a contract made
by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a
company in which the director has a substantial financial interest except for any benefits which may be deemed to
arise from transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain directors have
substantial financial interests as disclosed in Note 35(b) to the financial statements.

Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Group or the Company a party to any arrangements whose
object is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The details of the directors’ remuneration paid or payable to the directors of the Company during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
40 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

      INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COST
      During the financial year, there is no indemnity given to or professional indemnity insurance effected for directors,
      officers or auditors of the Company.
      SUBSIDIARIES
      The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
      AUDITORS
      The auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
      The details of the auditors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.
       
      Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 6 April 2022.

      Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
      Director

      Tiong Chiong Hiiung
      Director
                                                                                                                               41 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk and Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being two of the directors of CCK Consolidated Holdings
Berhad, state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 46 to 130 are drawn up
in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2021 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year ended on that date.

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 6 April 2022.

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk  Tiong Chiong Hiiung
Director                     Director

STATUTORY DECLARATION

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being the director primarily responsible for the financial management of CCK Consolidated
Holdings Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 46 to 130 are,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovementioned
Tiong Chiong Hiiung, NRIC Number: 670208-13-6277
at Sibu
in the State of Sarawak
on this 6 April 2022.

                                                                                                                             Tiong Chiong Hiiung
                                                                                                                             Director

Before me
42 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 31 December 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies, as set out on pages 46 to 130.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial
year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards
Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence
Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws
and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.

Impairment of Inventories                               How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 11 in the financial statements
                                                        Our procedures included, amongst others:-
Key Audit Matter
                                                        (a) Understanding management’s process in
The Group’s inventories were stated at a carrying            determining impairment of inventories
amount of RM57.2 million as of 31 December 2021.
                                                        (b) Reviewing the ageing analysis of inventories
The assessment of impairment of inventories on
hand due to obsolescence as at the end of the           (c) Understanding and testing the operating
reporting period require management estimates and            effectiveness of control over inventories; including
judgements. This, in combination with the significance       observing the process of year-end inventory count
of inventories in the financial statements, made us
identify the impairment of inventories as a key audit   (d) Inquiring of management action plans to slow-
matter of our audit.                                         moving and obsolete inventories

                                                        (e) Evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures in the
                                                             financial statements
                                                           43 ANNUAL REPORT //

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

Cash Sales Transactions                                    How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 26 in the financial statements
                                                           Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                           (a) Inquiring, inspecting, observing and documenting
The Group’s revenue is mainly contributed by the                cash sales cycle to obtain an understanding of the
retail segment, which represents 84% of the total               Group’s design and implementation of policies
revenue as per financial year ended 31 December                 and procedures of the cycle
2021. Majority of the Group’s transactions are settled
in cash. Cash sales transactions is a key audit matter     (b) Performing walkthrough tests, test of controls
due to voluminous transactions arising at multiple              on cash sales cycle with samples documented
sales points.                                                   on identified key controls and evaluation of the
                                                                control processes for cash sales transactions
Revenue recognition is a key audit matter due to:               cycle especially the cash receipts and payment
                                                                processes
• risk that revenue may be overstated because of
     the pressure from management to achieve the           (c) Examining and reviewing year end cut-off
     planned results as revenue recognition has a               to ensure revenue are accounted for in the
     direct impact on the results of the Group.                 appropriate period

• most of the retail revenue is settled in cash which
     is subjectable to misappropriation.

Valuation of biological assets                             How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 12 in the financial statements
                                                           Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                           (a) Evaluating the appropriateness of the methodology
The biological assets of the Group mainly comprise              and key assumptions used by management in
broilers and layers.                                            valuation of the biological assets.

In determining the fair value of the biological assets,    (b) Checking the mathematical accuracy of the
the Group uses the discounted cash flows model and              valuation model prepared by management.
significant judgement is involved in determining the
key assumptions which will impact the amount of fair       (c) Corroborating the weekly number of eggs
value of biological assets recognised.                          produced and weekly feed consumption volume to
                                                                the historical data provided to us by management.
We focused on this area because there is key judgement
involved in determining the expected number of eggs        (d) In respect of the projected selling prices and
produced by each layer, the expected selling price of           feed costs, we have back-tested by comparing
the eggs, mortality rate, feed consumption rate and             the projected prices against historical prices and
feed costs over the remaining life of the layers, as well       checked the reasonableness of the adjustments
as the discount rates.                                          made for abnormal market movements.

The accounting policy for biological assets has been       (e) Test checking the mortality rate assumption
disclosed in Note 4.14 to the financial statements.             against historical actual mortality rate.

The key assumptions used in the discounted cash            (f) Assessing the appropriateness of the range
flow model and the sensitivity analysis are disclosed           used to test the sensitivity analysis performed by
in Note 12 to the financial statements.                         management as disclosed in Note 12.

                                                           (g) Evaluating the adequacy of the disclosure in the
                                                                financial statements.
44 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

    TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

      REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

      Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

      The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
      included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
      auditors’ report thereon.

      Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
      we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

      In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
      read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
      financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
      to be materially misstated.

      If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
      we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

      Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

      The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the
      Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
      Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
      responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
      statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

      In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
      Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
      concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or
      the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

      Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

      Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
      Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
      report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
      audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
      Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
      considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
      decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

      As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
      Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-

      • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
              Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
              obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
              detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
              involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

      • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
              appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
              Group’s and the Company’s internal control.

      • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
              related disclosures made by the directors.
                                                                                                                               45 ANNUAL REPORT //

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)

• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
        the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
        significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
        material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures
        in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
        our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
        However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
        concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
        Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
        represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
        activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
        for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
        opinion.

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats of safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which
we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for
the content of this report.

Crowe Malaysia PLT                          Morris Hii Su Ong
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA) & AF 1018            1682/04/23(J)
Chartered Accountants
                                         Chartered Accountant
Sibu, Sarawak
Date: 6 April 2022
46 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AT 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                                  The Group                        The Company

			                                           2021                      2020       2021        2020

		                                      Note  RM                        RM         RM          RM

							

ASSETS						

		

NON-CURRENT ASSETS						

		

Investments in subsidiaries             5           -                         -    87,448,101  81,448,101

Investment in an associate              6     35,221,195  29,687,899               19,930,171  19,930,171

Property, plant and equipment           7     204,634,582 202,960,099              8,526,872   8,675,961

Investment properties                   8     16,103,979  16,212,679                     -           -

Goodwill                                9     380,224                   380,224          -           -

Deferred tax assets                     10    1,792,025                 1,593,117        -           -

			

			                                           258,132,005 250,834,018 115,905,144 110,054,233

CURRENT ASSETS						

		

Inventories                             11    57,161,525  55,500,930                     -           -

Biological assets                       12    13,559,854  16,307,669                     -           -

Trade receivables                       13    35,967,434  32,633,047                     -           -

Other receivables, deposits and 						

prepayments                             14    9,649,733   10,335,544               432,775     304,346

Amount owing by subsidiaries            15          -                         -    84,779,781  96,588,118

Current tax assets		                          2,843,568                 1,161,961        -           -

Deposits with licensed banks            16    6,318,588                 9,266,229        -           -

Cash and bank balances		                      51,463,105  49,860,764               894,925     4,772,579

							

			                                           176,963,807 175,066,144              86,107,481 101,665,043

			

TOTAL ASSETS		                                435,095,812 425,900,162 202,012,625 211,719,276

			

				

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						

		

EQUITY						

Share capital                           17    158,968,786 158,968,786 158,968,786 158,968,786

Treasury shares                         18    (2,432,449) (2,432,449) (2,432,449) (2,432,449)

Reserves                                19    157,620,536 144,395,239              29,324,677  32,999,254

			

Equity attributable to owners of						

the Company		                                 314,156,873 300,931,576 185,861,014 189,535,591

Non-controlling interests		                   92,114                    92,114           -           -

			

TOTAL EQUITY		                                314,248,987 301,023,690 185,861,014 189,535,591

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                               47 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Cont’d)

AT 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                           The Group                               The Company

			                                    2021                             2020       2021        2020

		                               Note  RM                               RM         RM          RM

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES						

		

Other payables, deposits and 						

accruals                         20          -                          3,433,991        -     3,433,991

Bank borrowings                  21    7,133,218                        7,547,626        -           -

Lease liabilities                22    15,896,256  16,144,407                            -           -

Deferred income                  23          -                          18,815           -           -

Deferred tax liabilities         10    8,380,469                        9,766,525  1,385,173   1,543,035

			

			                                    31,409,943  36,911,364                      1,385,173   4,977,026

			

							

CURRENT LIABILITIES						

		

Trade payables                   24    27,252,616  22,835,312                            -           -

Other payables, deposits and 						

accruals                         20    21,959,340  21,983,183                      7,475,356   3,785,519

Amount owing to subsidiaries     15          -                                -    1,291,082   1,421,140

Bank borrowings:-                21				

- bank overdrafts		                    576,089                                -          -           -

- other borrowings		                   32,604,624  36,020,060                      6,000,000 12,000,000

Lease liabilities                22    3,106,670                        3,133,106        -           -

Provision for employee benefits  25    856,540                          880,817          -           -

Current tax liabilities		              3,081,003                        3,112,630        -           -

							

			                                    89,436,882  87,965,108                      14,766,438  17,206,659

			

TOTAL LIABILITIES		                    120,846,825 124,876,472                     16,151,611 22,183,685

			

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		         435,095,812 425,900,162 202,012,625 211,719,276

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
48 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                                  The Group                          The Company

			                                           2021                      2020         2021        2020

		                                      Note  RM                        RM           RM          RM

REVENUE                                 26    685,575,777 656,043,078                10,366,000  12,630,000

							

COST OF SALES		                               (565,948,945) (528,471,249)                  -           -

				

GROSS PROFIT		                                119,626,832 127,571,829                10,366,000  12,630,000

								

OTHER INCOME		                                5,093,655                 6,303,629    771,648     1,143,821

								

SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION						

EXPENSES		                                    (20,610,395) (20,928,100)                    -           -

								

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES		                     (26,806,711) (24,602,321) (2,024,199) (2,001,851)

								

OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES		                    (48,636,115) (44,600,269)                    -           -

							

FINANCE COSTS		                               (2,084,966) (2,154,277)                (412,994)   (760,773)

								

NET IMPAIRMENT LOSSES						

ON FINANCIAL ASSETS                     27    (927,574)                 (146,281)          -           -

								

SHARE OF PROFITS OF						

AN EQUITY ACCOUNTED						

ASSOCIATE		                                   5,533,296                 6,465,440          -           -

				

PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                  28    31,188,022  47,909,650                 8,700,455   11,011,197

							

INCOME TAX EXPENSE                      29    (6,711,763) (10,427,380)               157,862     (68,012)

				

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION		                       24,476,259  37,482,270                 8,858,317 10,943,185

							

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE

INCOME                                  30					

		

Items that Will Not be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Remeasurement of defined						

		 benefits plan		                            49,071                    (30,169)           -           -

							

Items that Will be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Foreign currency translation 						

		 differences		                              1,232,861                 (1,200,827)        -           -

							

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE						

INCOME		                                      1,281,932                 (1,230,996)        -           -

				

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME						

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR		                      25,758,191  36,251,274                 8,858,317 10,943,185

				

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                           49 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021 (Cont’d)

                                      The Group                                   The Company

			                               2021                                  2020      2021     2020

		                          Note  RM                                    RM        RM       RM

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION						

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           24,476,259  37,482,270                          8,858,317 10,943,185

Non-controlling interests		             -                                     -         -        -

				

				                              24,476,259  37,482,270                          8,858,317 10,943,185

				

							

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME						

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           25,758,191  36,251,274                          8,858,317 10,943,185

Non-controlling interests		             -                                     -         -        -

				

				                              25,758,191  36,251,274                          8,858,317 10,943,185

				

							

EARNINGS PER SHARE (SEN):-  31					

Basic		                               3.91                                  5.98 			

Diluted		                             3.91                                  5.98

				                                                                              			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY                                                                                                                           50 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

					                                                                                Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                Exchange 		               to Owners       Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury     Translation  Retained     of the          Controlling   Total
                                                                         Shares                                                              Equity
			                                             Capital                              Reserve      Profits      Company         Interests
                                                                           RM                                                                 RM
			                                       Note  RM                                   RM           RM           RM              RM

The Group								

Balance at 1.1.2020		                           158,968,786 (2,320,244) (3,465,131) 122,589,904 275,773,315                    380,252 276,153,567

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -           - 37,482,270 37,482,270                     - 37,482,270

Other comprehensive income for the									

financial year:-                          30							

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -           -   (30,169)     (30,169)                   -  (30,169)

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        - (1,200,827)             - (1,200,827)                 - (1,200,827)

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        - (1,200,827) 37,452,101 36,251,274                     - 36,251,274

									

Contributions by and distribution to									

owners of the Company:-								

- Purchase of treasury shares             18             -              (112,205)             -             -  (112,205)                  -  (112,205)

- Dividends:-									

- by the Company                          32             -                        -           - (10,966,282) (10,966,282)                 - (10,966,282)

- by the subsidiaries to non-controlling

			 interest		                                           -                        -           -   (14,526)     (14,526)        (288,138)     (302,664)

Total transactions with owners		                               -          (112,205)               - (10,980,808) (11,093,013)  (288,138) (11,381,151)
					                                           158,968,786             (2,432,449)  (4,665,958) 149,061,197 300,931,576         92,114 301,023,690
Balance at 31.12.2020		
					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

					                                                                                Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                Exchange 		               to Owners   Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury     Translation  Retained     of the      Controlling   Total
                                                                         Shares                                                          Equity
			                                             Capital                              Reserve      Profits      Company     Interests
                                                                           RM                                                             RM
			                      Note                   RM                                   RM           RM           RM          RM

The Group								

Balance at 31.12.2020/1.1.2021		                158,968,786 (2,432,449) (4,665,958) 149,061,197 300,931,576                92,114 301,023,690

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -           - 24,476,259 24,476,259                 - 24,476,259

Other comprehensive income for the									

financial year:-         30							

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -           -   49,071       49,071                 -  49,071

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        -  1,232,861              -  1,232,861              -  1,232,861

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        -  1,232,861 24,525,330 25,758,191                  - 25,758,191

									

Contributions by and distributions to									

owners of the Company:-

- Dividends:-								

- by the Company         32                              -                        -           - (12,532,894) (12,532,894)             - (12,532,894)

											

Total transactions with owners		                         -                        -           - (12,532,894) (12,532,894)             - (12,532,894)

					

Balance as at 31.12.2021		                      158,968,786 (2,432,449) (3,433,097) 161,053,633 314,156,873                92,114 314,248,987

					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 51 //
52 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

			                                           Share        Treasury                Retained     Total

			                                           Capital                   Shares     Profits      Equity

		                                      Note  RM                        RM         RM           RM

						

The Company

Balance at 1.1.2020		                         158,968,786               (2,320,244) 33,022,351 189,670,893

						

Profit after taxation/Total 						

comprehensive income						

for the financial year		                               -                        -  10,943,185   10,943,185

						

Contributions by and 						

distributions to owners						

of the Company:-					

- Purchase of treasury shares           18             -                (112,205)            -  (112,205)

- Dividends                             32             -                        - (10,966,282) (10,966,282)

						

			                                                    -                (112,205) (10,966,282) (11,078,487)

			

Balance at 31.12.2020/1.1.2021		              158,968,786               (2,432,449) 32,999,254 189,535,591

						

Profit after taxation/Total 						

comprehensive income						

for the financial year		                               -                        -  8,858,317    8,858,317

						

Contributions by and

distributions to owners

of the Company:-

- Dividends                             32             -                        - (12,532,894) (12,532,894)

						

			                                                    -                        - (12,532,894) (12,532,894)

			

Balance at 31.12.2021		                       158,968,786               (2,432,449) 29,324,677 185,861,014

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                              53 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                            The Group                              The Company

			                                         2021                        2020       2021       2020

			RM                                                                   RM         RM         RM

CASH FLOWS FROM/(FOR) 					

OPERATING ACTIVITIES					

Profit before taxation                      31,188,022   47,909,650                8,700,455  11,011,197

						

Adjustments for:-					

Allowance for impairment losses

on receivables                              1,099,851                   213,790          -          -

Allowance for impairment losses

on receivables no longer required           (172,277)                   (67,509)         -          -

Allowance for stock obsolescence            290,935                           700        -          -

Amortisation of government grant            (18,815)                          -          -          -

Bad debts written off                       146,298                     68,929           -          -

Changes in fair value of biological assets  2,747,815                   (983,807)        -          -

Depreciation of investment properties       108,700                     126,700          -          -

Depreciation of property, plant

and equipment                               22,974,470   22,153,616                160,647    160,370

Dividend income                                   -                           - (10,000,000) (12,264,000)

Gain on derecognition of lease contract           -                     (6,727)          -          -

Gain on disposal of property, plant

and equipment                               (106,993)                   (8,121)          -          -

Gain on modification of lease               (337)                             -          -          -

Interest expense                            2,084,966                   2,154,277  412,994    760,773

Interest income                             (352,387)                   (373,772)  (657,044) (1,020,246)

Property, plant and equipment written off   272,172                     23,322           -          -

Provision for employee benefits             60,503                      238,156          -          -

Share of profits of an equity accounted

associate                                   (5,533,296) (6,465,440)                      -          -

Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange  (5,375)                     7,056            -          -

			

Operating profit/(loss) before					

working capital changes                     54,784,252   64,990,820                (1,382,948) (1,351,906)

					

(Increase)/decrease in inventories          (1,780,543)                 171,272          -          -

(Increase)/decrease in trade and

other receivables                           (3,543,856)                 7,470,874  (128,429)  (87,702)

Increase/(decrease) in trade					

and other payables                          967,044                     (725,269)  255,846    (2,816,547)

Employee benefits paid                      (42,289)                    (140,374)        -          -

		

CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATIONS/					

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD                     50,384,608   71,767,323                (1,255,531) (4,256,155)

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
54 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                                   The Group                       The Company

			 2021                                                                2020       2021         2020

		                                      Note   RM                       RM         RM           RM

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		                      50,384,608  71,767,323              (1,255,531) (4,256,155)

Income tax paid		                              (10,469,570) (10,446,622)                 -            -

Income tax refunded		                          29,127                   135,738          -            -

Interest paid		                                (2,084,966) (2,154,277)             (412,994)    (760,773)

Interest received		                            352,387                  373,772    657,044      1,020,246

			

NET CASH FROM/(FOR)						

OPERATING ACTIVITIES		                         38,211,586  59,675,934              (1,011,481) (3,996,682)

							

CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES						

Acquisition of additional equity

interests from non-controlling

interests                               5(b)       -                    (302,664)        -            -

Additional investments in an 						

existing subsidiary		                              -                          -    (6,000,000)        -

Repayment from subsidiaries		                      -                          -    11,808,337 15,272,510

Dividend received		                                -                    3,264,000  10,000,000   12,264,000

Proceeds from disposal of 						

property, plant and equipment		                143,301                  119,800          -            -

Purchase of property, plant 						

and equipment                           33(a)  (21,410,912) (25,213,328)           (11,558)           -

							

NET CASH (FOR)/FROM 						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES		                         (21,267,611) (22,132,192) 15,796,779 27,536,510

			

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD		                      16,943,975  37,543,742              14,785,298   23,539,828

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                  55 ANNUAL REPORT //

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

                                           The Group                                 The Company

			 2021                                                                2020         2021         2020

		                              Note   RM                               RM           RM           RM

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		              16,943,975  37,543,742                        14,785,298   23,539,828

							

CASH FLOWS FOR						

FINANCING ACTIVITIES						

Repayment to subsidiaries       33(c)      -                                  -      (130,058) (2,117,545)

Dividend paid:-					

- by the Company                32     (12,532,894) (10,966,282) (12,532,894) (10,966,282)

Drawdown of term loans          33(c)  202,500                          1,945,000          -            -

Purchase of treasury shares		              -                            (112,205)          -      (112,205)

Drawdown/(repayment) of

bankers’ acceptance             33(c)  2,789,949                        (2,283,744)        -            -

Repayment of lease liabilities  33(d)  (2,887,955) (3,532,240)                             -            -

Repayment of revolving credit   33(c)  (6,000,000) (6,000,000) (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

Repayment of term loans         33(c)  (822,293)                        (366,810)          -            -

							

NET CASH FOR						

FINANCING ACTIVITIES		                 (19,250,693) (21,316,281) (18,662,952) (19,196,032)

			

NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE						

IN CASH AND CASH

EQUIVALENTS		                          (2,306,718) 16,227,461                        (3,877,654)  4,343,796

							

EFFECTS OF FOREIGN						

EXCHANGE TRANSLATION		                 385,329                          (311,723)          -            -

							

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT BEGINNING OF THE 						

FINANCIAL YEAR		                       59,126,993  43,211,255                        4,772,579    428,783

			

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT END OF THE

FINANCIAL YEAR                  33(b)  57,205,604  59,126,993                        894,925      4,772,579

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
56 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

     1. GENERAL INFORMATION

              The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. The registered
              office, which is also the principal place of business, is Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
              Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak.

              The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of
              the directors dated 6 April 2022.

2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

        The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management
        services. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have
        been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

The financial statements of the Group are prepared under the historical cost convention and modified to include
other bases of valuation as disclosed in other sections under significant accounting policies, and in compliance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

3.1 During the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following new accounting standard(s) and/
        or interpretation(s) (including the consequential amendments, if any):-

		MFRSs and/or IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)

		  Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16: Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
    – Phase 2

		  The adoption of the above accounting standard(s) and interpretation(s) (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.

3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s)
        (including the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting
        Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:-

		MFRSs and IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)             Effective Date
                                                                                    1 January 2023
		  MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts                                                     1 January 2022

		  Amendments to MFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework                              Deferred
                                                                                    1 January 2023
		  Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128: Sale or Contribution of Assets
                                                                                    1 January 2023
			 between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture                          1 January 2023
                                                                                    1 January 2023
		  Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts                                       1 January 2023

		  Amendment to MFRS 17: Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 –               1 January 2023

			 Comparative Information                                                         1 January 2022

		  Amendment to MFRS 101: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current

		  Amendments to MFRS 101: Disclosure of Accounting Policies

		  Amendments to MFRS 108: Definition of Accounting Estimates

		  Amendments to MFRS 112: Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities

			 arising from a Single Transaction

		  Amendments to MFRS 116: Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds

			 before Intended Use
                                                                               57 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s)
        (including the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting
        Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:- (Cont’d)

		MFRSs and IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)        Effective Date
                                                                               1 January 2022
		  Amendments to MFRS 137: Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract  1 January 2022

		  Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 – 2020

		  The adoption of the above accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s) (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) is expected to have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group
    upon their initial application.

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

		Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty

		  Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key
    sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material
    adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year other than as
    disclosed below:-

		  (a) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

			  The estimates for the residual values, useful lives and related depreciation charges for the property,
     plant and equipment are based on commercial factors which could change significantly as a
     result of technical innovations and competitors’ actions in response to the market conditions. The
     Group anticipates that the residual values of its property, plant and equipment will be insignificant.
     As a result, residual values are not being taken into consideration for the computation of the
     depreciable amount. Changes in the expected level of usage and technological development
     could impact the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets, therefore future
     depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as
     at the reporting date is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

		  (b) Write-down of Inventories

			  Reviews are made periodically by management on damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
     inventories. These reviews require judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates
     could result in revisions to the valuation of inventories. The carrying amount of inventories as at
     the reporting date is disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.

		  (c) Impairment of Trade Receivables

			  The Group uses the simplified approach to estimate a lifetime expected credit loss allowance
     for all trade receivables. The Group develops the expected loss rates based on the payment
     profiles of past sales and the corresponding historical credit losses, and adjusts for qualitative
     and quantitative reasonable and supportable forward-looking information. If the expectation is
     different from the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying amount of trade receivables.
     The carrying amount of trade receivables as at the reporting date are disclosed in Note 13 to the
     financial statements. 
58 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (Cont’d)

		  (d) Impairment of Non-Trade Receivables

			  The loss allowances for non-trade financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default
     (probability of default) and expected loss if a default happens (loss given default). It also requires
     the Group to assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk of the non-trade financial
     asset at the reporting date. The Group uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting
     appropriate inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the past payment trends, existing
     market conditions and forward-looking information. The carrying amounts of other receivables
     and amounts owing by subsidiaries as at the reporting date are disclosed in Note 14 and 15 to the
     financial statements respectively.

		(e) Income Taxes

			  There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination may be
     different from the initial estimate. The Group recognises tax liabilities based on its understanding
     of the prevailing tax laws and estimates of whether such taxes will be due in the ordinary course of
     business. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially
     recognised, such difference will impact the income tax expense and deferred tax balances in the
     period in which such determination is made. The carrying amount of current tax liabilities as at the
     reporting date is RM 3,081,003 (2020 – RM 3,112,630).

    (f) Discount Rates used in Leases

			  Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group uses the
     incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate is the
     interest rate that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, the funds necessary
     to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
     Therefore, the incremental borrowing rate requires estimation particularly when no observable
     rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the
     lease. The Group estimates the incremental borrowing rate using observable inputs when available
     and is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.

    (g) Biological Assets

			  The fair value of biological assets is determined using a discounted cash flow model which
     considers the expected quantity and price to be produced over the life of the biological assets,
     taking into account the biological assets’ mortality rate.
			
     In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are
     required which include the expected number of agricultural produce, the expected selling prices,
     mortality rate, consumption rate, feed costs and other estimated costs over the remaining life of
     the biological assets, as well as the discount rates. Changes to any of these assumptions would
     affect the fair value of the biological assets.
                                                              59 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies

		  Management believes that there are no instances of application of critical judgement in applying Group’s
    accounting policies which will have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
    statements other than as disclosed below: -

    (a) Classification between Investment Properties and Owner-occupied Properties

			  Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation
     and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
     administrative purposes. If these portions could be sold separately (or leased out separately under
     a finance lease), the Group accounts for the portions separately. If the portions could not be sold
     separately, the property is an investment property only if an insignificant portion is held for use in
     the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

    (b) Lease Terms

			  Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Group before the end of the non-
     cancellable contract period. In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and
     circumstances including the past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset if
     an option to extend is not taken. An extension options is only included in the lease term if the lease
     is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

    (c) Contingent Liabilities

			  The recognition and measurement for contingent liabilities is based on management’s view of the
     expected outcome on contingencies after consulting legal counsel for litigation cases and experts,
     for matters in the ordinary course of business. Furthermore, management is of the view that the
     chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees issued by the Company
     are remote.

4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

		  The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
    made up to the end of the reporting period.

		  Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed
    to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those
    returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control
    only when such rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
    when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of
    the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.

		  Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group up to the effective
    date on which control ceases, as appropriate.

		  Intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Intragroup
    losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements.
    Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency
    of accounting policies with those of the Group.
60 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)

		(a) Business Combinations

			  Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. Under the acquisition
     method, the consideration transferred for acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets
     transferred, liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group at the acquisition
     date. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from
     a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs, other than the costs to issue
     debt or equity securities, are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.

			  In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are
     remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised
     in profit or loss.

			  Non-controlling interests in the acquiree may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-
     controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at
     the date of acquisition. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction
     basis.

		(b) Non-controlling Interests

			  Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated statement of financial
     position, separately from the equity attributable to owners of the Company. Profit or loss and each
     component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to
     the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests
     even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. 

		  (c) Changes in Ownership Interests in Subsidiaries Without Change of Control

			  All changes in the parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
     are accounted for as equity transactions. Any difference between the amount by which the non-
     controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of consideration paid or received is recognised
     directly in equity of the Group.

		(d) Loss of Control

			  Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group recognises any gain or loss on disposal in profit
     or loss which is calculated as the difference between:-

			  (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any
             retained interest in the former subsidiary; and

			  (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the former
             subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.

			  Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the former subsidiary
     are accounted for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities
     were disposed of (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained profits). The
     fair value of any investments retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is
     regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under MFRS 9 or, when
     applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
                                                  61 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.3 GOODWILL

		  Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The carrying value of goodwill
    is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount may be impaired. The impairment value of goodwill is recognised immediately
    in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.

		  Under the acquisition method, any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in
    the business combination, the amount of non-controlling interests recognised and the fair value of the
    Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net fair value of the acquiree’s
    identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition is recorded as goodwill.

		  Where the latter amount exceeds the former, after reassessment, the excess represents a bargain
    purchase gain and is recognised in profit or loss immediately.

		  In respect of equity-accounted associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying
    amount of the investment and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset,
    including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the equity-accounted associates.

4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES

		  (a) Functional and Presentation Currency

			  The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the currency of the
     primary economic environment in which the entity operates, which is the functional currency.

			  The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the
     Company’s functional and presentation currency.

		(b) Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances

			  Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the respective functional currencies on initial
     recognition, using the exchange rates at the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities at
     the end of the reporting period are translated at the exchange rates ruling as of that date. Non-
     monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates that existed when the values
     were determined. All exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.

		(c) Foreign Operations

			  Assets and liabilities of foreign operations (including any goodwill and fair value adjustments arising
     on acquisition) are translated to the Group’s presentation currency at the exchange rates at the end
     of the reporting period. Income, expenses and other comprehensive income of foreign operations
     are translated at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. All exchange differences arising
     from translation are taken directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity;
     attributed to the owners of the Company and non-controlling interests, as appropriate.

			  Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of foreign operations are treated
     as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and are recorded in the functional currency of the
     foreign operations and translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period.

			  On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign
     subsidiary, or a partial disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign
     operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in an associate that includes a foreign operation of
     which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), all of the exchange differences accumulated
     in equity in respect of that foreign operation attributable to the owners of the Company are
     reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. The portion that relates to non-
     controlling interests is derecognised but is not reclassified to profit or loss.
62 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Foreign Operations (Cont’d)

			  In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the Group losing
     control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are
     reattributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. When the Group
     disposes of only part of its investment in an associate that includes a foreign operation while
     retaining significant influence, the proportionate share of the accumulative exchange differences
     is reclassified to profit or loss.

			  In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of an intragroup loan is neither planned
     nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, the exchange differences arising from translating such
     monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in the foreign operation and are
     recognised in other comprehensive income.

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		  Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when the
    Group has become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.

		  Financial instruments are classified as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity instruments in
    accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and their definitions in MFRS 132. Interest,
    dividends, gains and losses relating to a financial instrument classified as a liability are reported as an
    expense or income. Distributions to holders of financial instruments classified as equity are charged
    directly to equity.

		  Financial instruments are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends to
    settle either on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

		  A financial instrument is recognised initially at its fair value (other than trade receivables without significant
    financing component which are measured at transaction price as defined in MFRS15 at inception).
    Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial instrument (other
		  than a financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss) are added to/deducted from the fair value
    on initial recognition, as appropriate. Transaction costs on the financial instrument at fair value through
    profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

    Financial instruments recognised in the statements of financial position are disclosed in the individual
    policy statement associated with each item.

    (a) Financial Assets

			  All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised or
     fair value (through profit or loss, or other comprehensive income), depending on the classification
     of the financial assets.

			Debt Instruments

			(i) Amortised Cost

				  The financial asset is held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows
      represent solely payments of principal and interest. Interest income is recognised by
      applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset. When
      the asset has subsequently become credit-impaired, the interest income is recognised by
      applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset.
                                                                     63 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

(a) Financial Assets (Cont’d)

			Debt Instruments (Cont’d)

			(i) Amortised Cost (Cont’d)

				  The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial
      asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate
      is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or
      received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other
      premiums or discounts), excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the
      financial asset or a shorter period (where appropriate).

			  (ii) Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income

				  The financial asset is held for both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial
      asset, where the asset’s cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
      Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive income and
      accumulated in the fair value reserve, except for the recognition of impairment, interest
      income and foreign exchange difference which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
      Interest income is calculated using the effective interest rate method.

			  (iii) Fair Value through Profit or Loss

				  All other financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through
      other comprehensive income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The fair
      value changes do not include interest or dividend income.

			  The Group reclassifies debt instruments when and only when its business model for managing
     those assets change. 

			Equity Instruments

			  All equity investments are subsequent measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in
     profit or loss except where the Group has made an irrevocable election to present the subsequent
     changes in fair value in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve at
     initial recognition.

			  The designation at fair value through other comprehensive income is not permitted if the equity
     investment is either held for trading or is designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a
     measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise.

			  Dividend income from this category of financial assets is recognised in profit or loss when the
     Group’s right to receive payment is established unless the dividends clearly represent a recovery
     of part of the cost of the equity investments.

		(b) Financial Liabilities

			  (i) Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

				  Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are either
      held for trading or are designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or
      recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise. The changes in fair value of these
      financial liabilities are recognise in profit or loss.
64 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

(b) Financial Liabilities (Cont’d)

			  (ii) Other Financial Liabilities

				  Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus directly attributable
      transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
      method.

				  The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial
      liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest
      rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and
      points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction
      costs and other premiums or discounts), through the expected life of the financial liability or
      a shorter period (where appropriate).

		(c) Equity Instruments

			  Equity instruments classified as equity are measured initially at cost and are not remeasured
     subsequently.

			  (i) Ordinary Shares

				  Ordinary shares are classified as equity and recorded at the proceeds received, net of
      directly attributable transaction costs.

				  Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as liabilities when approved for appropriation.

			  (ii) Treasury Shares

				  When the Company’s own shares recognised as equity are bought back, the amount of the
      consideration paid, including all costs directly attributable, are recognised as a deduction
      from equity. Own shares purchased that are not subsequently cancelled are classified as
      treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. No gain or loss is
      recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.

				  Where treasury shares are reissued by resale, the difference between the sales consideration
      received and the carrying amount of the treasury shares is recognised in equity.

				  Where treasury shares are cancelled, their costs are transferred to retained profits.

		(d) Derecognition

			  A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to the
     cash flows from the financial asset expire or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially
     all risk and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. On derecognition of a financial
     asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and
     the sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on
     derecognition of a debt instrument classified as fair value through other comprehensive income,
     the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the fair value reserve is reclassified from
     equity to profit or loss. In contrast, there is no subsequent reclassification of the fair value reserve
     to profit or loss following the derecognition of an equity investment.

			  A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
     in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
     difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to
     another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities
     assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
                                               65 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

		  (e) Financial Guarantee Contracts

			  A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
     reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specific debtor fails to make payment when due
     in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

			  Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as liabilities at fair value, net of transaction
     costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts are recognised as income
     in profit or loss over the period of the guarantee or, when there is no specific contractual period,
     recognised in profit or loss upon discharge of the guarantee. If the debtor fails to make payment
     relating to a financial guarantee contract when it is due and the Company, as the issuer, is required
     to reimburse the holder for the associated loss, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount
     of the credit loss determined in accordance with the expected credit loss model and the amount
     initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.

4.6 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

		  Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the Company, and
    are reviewed for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. The cost of the investments includes transaction
    costs.

		  On the disposal of the investments in subsidiaries, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
    the carrying amount of the investments is recognised in profit or loss.

4.7 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES

		  An associate is an entity in which the Group and the Company have a long-term equity interest and
    where it exercises significant influence over the financial and operating policies.

		  Investments in associates are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the Company, and
    are reviewed for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. The cost of the investment includes transaction
		  costs.

    The investment in an associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
    method based on the financial statements of the associate made up to 31 December 2021. The Group’s
    share of the post-acquisition profits and other comprehensive income of the associate is included in the
    consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, after adjustment if any, to align
    the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences up to
    the effective date on which significant influence ceases or when the investment is classified as held for
    sale. The Group’s interest in the associate is carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at
    cost plus the Group’s share of the post-acquisition retained profits and reserves. The cost of investment
    includes transaction costs.

		  When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that
    interest is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that
    the Group has an obligation. The interest in the associate is the carrying amount of the investment in the
    associate determined using the equity method together with any long-term interests that, in substance,
    form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate.

		  Unrealised gains or losses on transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the
    extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless cost cannot be
    recovered.
66 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.7 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (CONT’D)

		  When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate and the retained interest in the
    former associate is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date
    and the fair value is regarded as the initial carrying amount of the financial asset in accordance with
    MFRS 9. Furthermore, the Group also reclassifies its share of the gain or loss previously recognised in
    other comprehensive income of that associate to profit or loss when the equity method is discontinued.

4.8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

		  All items of property, plant and equipment, are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that
    are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and other costs directly attributable to bringing the
    asset to working condition for its intended use.

		  Subsequent to initial recognition, all property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and any impairment losses.

		  Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as
    appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated
    with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying
    amount of parts that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
    plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

		  Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is charged to profit
    or loss (unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset) on a straight-line method to write
    off the depreciable amount of the assets over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation of an asset does
    not cease when the asset becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated.
    The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:-

		  Leasehold land                           Over the lease periods of 14 to 906 years
		  Buildings                                2% - 5%
		  Furniture, fittings and equipment        10% - 20%
		  Coldroom, plant and machinery            10% - 20%
		  Motor vehicles                           20%
		  Renovation                               10% - 20%

		  Capital work-in-progress included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as these assets
    are not yet available for use.

		  The depreciation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at
    the end of each reporting period to ensure that the amounts, method and periods of depreciation are
    consistent with previous estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic
    benefits embodied in the items of the property, plant and equipment. Any changes are accounted for as
    a change in estimate.

		  When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
    accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

		  An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
    benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising from derecognition of the asset, being the
    difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount, is recognised in profit or loss.
    The revaluation reserve included in equity is transferred directly to retained profits on retirement or
    disposal of the asset.
                                               67 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.9 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		  Investment properties are properties which are owned or right-to-use asset held to earn rental income
    or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the
    production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

		  Investment properties which are owned are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that
    is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The right-of-use asset held under
    a lease contract that meets the definition of investment property is measured initially similarly as other
    right-of-use assets.

		  Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
    and impairment losses, if any.

		  Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    investment properties. The estimated useful lives of the investment properties are within 59 years to 99
    years.

		  Investment properties are derecognised when they have either been disposed of or when the investment
    property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future benefit is expected from its disposal.

		  On the derecognition of an investment property, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
    the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.

		  Transfers are made to or from investment property only when there is a change in use. All transfers do
    not change the carrying amount of the property reclassified.

4.10 LEASES

		  The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Group
    recognises a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements
    in which it is the lessee, except for low-value assets and short-term leases with 12 months or less. For
    these leases, the Group recognises the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line
    method over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time
    pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.

		  The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The
    right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property are presented in the statements
    of financial position within property, plant and equipment and the associated lease liabilities are presented
    as separate line item in the statements of financial position.

		  The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost includes the initial amount of the corresponding
    lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
    initial direct costs incurred, less any incentives received.
		
    The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
    impairment losses, and adjustment for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The depreciation starts
    from the commencement date of the lease. If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the
    Group or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects that the Group expects to exercise a purchase option,
    the related right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the
    Group depreciates the right-of-use asset to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset
    or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined on the
    same basis as those property, plant and equipment.

		  The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
    the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily
    determined, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate.
68 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.10 LEASES (CONT’D)

		            The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
              remeasured when there is a change in the future lease payments (other than lease modification that
              is not accounted for as a separate lease) with the corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying
              amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recognised in profit or loss if the carrying amount has been
              reduced to zero.

4.11 INVENTORIES

		            Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs is determined on the weighted
              average cost method and comprises the purchase price, production or conversion costs and incidentals
              incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

		            Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the
              estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

4.12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

		            Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank balances, demand deposits and short-term,
              highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject
              to an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturity periods of three months or less. For
        4.13  the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank
              overdrafts.

              IMPAIRMENT

              (a) Impairment of Financial Assets

			           The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt
              instruments that are measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, as well as on financial
              guarantee contracts.

			           The expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are
              due to the Group in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to
              receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.

			           The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit
              risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group always recognises
              lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables using the simplified approach. The expected
              credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s
              historical credit loss experience and are adjusted for forward-looking information (including time
              value of money where appropriate).

			           For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses when
              there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit
              risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group
              measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12‑month expected
              credit losses.

			           The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial instruments with
              a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account, except
              for investments in debt instruments that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
              income, for which the loss allowance is recognised in other comprehensive income and
              accumulated in the fair value reserve, and does not reduce the carrying amount of the financial
              asset in the statement of financial position.
                                                      69 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.13 IMPAIRMENT (CONT’D)

              (b) Impairment of Non-financial Assets

			           The carrying values of assets, other than those to which MFRS 136 does not apply, are reviewed
              at the end of each reporting period for impairment when an annual impairment assessment is
              compulsory or there is an indication that the assets might be impaired. Impairment is measured
              by comparing the carrying values of the assets with their recoverable amounts. When the carrying
              amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable
              amount and an impairment loss shall be recognised. The recoverable amount of an asset is
              the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, which is measured
              by reference to discounted future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
              market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Where it is
              not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group determines the
              recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

			           An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Any impairment loss recognised in
              respect of a cash-generating unit is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill
              allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets
              in the cash-generating unit on a pro rata basis.

			           In respect of assets other than goodwill, and when there is a change in the estimates used to
              determine the recoverable amount, a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of an
              asset is treated as a reversal of the previous impairment loss and is recognised to the extent
              of the carrying amount of the asset that would have been determined (net of amortisation and
              depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised. The reversal is recognised in profit or loss
              immediately.

4.14 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS

		            Biological assets are measured on initial recognition and at the end of each reporting period at their fair
              value less costs to sell with change in fair value less costs to sell recognised in the profit or loss for the
              period in which it arises.

		            Costs to sell include all costs that would be necessary to sell the assets, including costs necessary to get
              the assets to market but excludes finance costs and income taxes.

		            Agricultural produce is the harvested product of the Group’s biological assets and is measured at fair
              value less cost to sell at the point of harvest. Such measurement is the cost at that date when transferring
              the harvested product to inventory.
        4.15
              PROVISIONS

		            Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
              of past events, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be
              required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions
              are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where
              the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the estimated
              expenditure required to settle the obligation. The discount rate shall be pre-tax rate that reflects current
              market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of
              the discount is recognised as interest expense in profit or loss.
70 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.16 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

(a) Short-term Benefits

			  Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and bonuses are measured on an undiscounted basis and
     are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the associated services are rendered by
     employees of the Group.

(b) Defined Contribution Plans

			  The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit or loss in the
     period to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further
     liability in respect of the defined contribution plans.

(c) Defined Benefit Plans

			  The Group makes contributions to the Company’s retirement benefit plan, an unfunded defined
     benefit plan.

			  The liability or asset recognised in the statements of financial position in respect of defined benefit
     plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value
     of plan assets.

			  The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit
     method by independent actuaries annually, determined by discounting the estimated future
     benefits that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, using market yields of
     private corporate debt securities which have currency and terms to maturity approximating the
     terms of the related obligation.

			  The Group determines the net interest expense or income on the net defined liability or asset
     for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at
     the beginning of the annual reporting period to the then net defined liability or asset, taking into
     account any changes in the net defined benefit liability or asset during the period as a result of
     contributions and benefit payments. The net interest expense or income is recognised in profit or
     loss.

			  Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial
     assumptions are recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive
     income and will not reclassified to profit or loss.

			  When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in
     benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in
     profit or loss.

			  The Group recognises gains or losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the
     settlement occurs.

4.17 INCOME TAXES

		(a) Current Tax

			  Current tax assets and liabilities are expected amount of income tax recoverable or payable to the
     taxation authorities.

			  Current taxes are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
     enacted at the end of the reporting period and are recognised in profit or loss except to the
     extent that the tax relates to items recognised outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive
     income or directly in equity).
                                               71 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.17 INCOME TAXES (CONT’D)

		(b) Deferred Tax

			  Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for all temporary differences other than those
     that arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which
     is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit
     nor taxable profit.

			  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
     period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates that have been
     enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
			
     Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses
     and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
     against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can
     be utilised. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting
     period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be
     realised.

		  Current and deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in
    profit or loss, other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax arising from a business
    combination is adjusted against goodwill or negative goodwill.

		  Current tax assets and liabilities or deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally
    enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes
    relate to the same taxable entity (or on different tax entities but they intend to settle current tax assets
    and liabilities on a net basis) and the same taxation authority.

4.18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

		  A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only
    be confirmed by the occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of
    the Group. It can also be a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised because it
    is not probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required or the amount of obligation cannot
    be measured reliably.

		  A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, unless
    the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. When a change in the probability of an outflow
    occurs so that the outflow is probable, it will then be recognised as a provision.

4.19 OPERATING SEGMENTS

		  An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
    earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any
    of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the
    chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and
    assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.

4.20 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARES

		  Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit or loss attributable to
    ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
    during the reporting period, adjusted for own shares held.

		  Diluted earnings per ordinary share is determined by adjusting the consolidated profit or loss attributable
    to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares
    outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
72 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.21 BORROWING COSTS

		            Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
              asset are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are ready for
              their intended use or sale. The capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended during extended periods
              in which active development is interrupted. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of
              borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to
              borrowings that are outstanding during the financial year, other than borrowings made specifically for the
              purpose of financing a specific project-in-progress, in which case the actual borrowing costs incurred
              on that borrowings less any investment income on temporary investment of that borrowings will be
              capitalised.

		            All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss as expenses in the period in which they are
              incurred.
 
        4.22  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

		            Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
              transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
              is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique. The measurement assumes that the
              transaction takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most
              advantageous market. For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market
              participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by
              selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

		            For financial reporting purposes, the fair value measurements are analysed into level 1 to level 3 as
              follows:-

		            Level 1:  Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liability that
                        the entity can access at the measurement date;

		            Level 2:  Inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for
                        the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and

		            Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

		            The transfer of fair value between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
              circumstances that caused the transfer.

4.23 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS

		            Revenue from contracts with customers is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract
              with a customer in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer net of sales and service
              tax, returns, rebates and discounts.

		            The Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An
              asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of the asset. Depending on the substance
              of the contract, revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is satisfied, which may be at a
              point in time or over time.

		(a) Sale of Goods (Credit Sales)

			           Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to
              the customer, being when the goods have been delivered to the customer and upon its acceptance.
              Following delivery, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell
              the goods, and bears the risk of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.

			           A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the
              consideration is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is
              due. 
                                                                                    73 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.23 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (CONT’D)

		  (b) Sales of Goods (Cash Sales)

			  Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to
     the customer, being at the point the customer purchases the goods at the retail outlets. Payment
     for the transaction is due immediately at the point the customer purchases the goods and takes
     delivery in outlet.

		(c) Rendering of Services

			  Revenue is recognised upon the rendering of services and when the outcome of the transaction
     can be estimated reliably. In the event the outcome of the transaction could not be estimated
     reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of the expenses incurred that are recoverable.

4.24 OTHER INCOME

		(a) Interest Income

			  Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

		(b) Dividend Income

			  Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive dividend payment is
     established.

		(c) Rental Income

			  Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line method over the lease term.

    (d) Government Grant

			  Government grants are recognised at their fair value when there is reasonable assurance that
     they will be received and all conditions attached will be met.

			  Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised as deferred grant
     income in the statements of financial position and are amortised to profit or loss on a systematic
     basis over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

			 The Company

				2021                                                                                     2020

				 RM                                                                                      RM

					

		 Unquoted shares, at cost					

		 - in Malaysia				 69,339,149 63,339,149

		 - outside Malaysia			                             18,108,952 18,108,952

						

						 87,448,101 81,448,101

						
74 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

   The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-

			                                     Principal Place  Percentage of

			                                     of Business/     Issued Share

			                                     Country of       Capital Held by

   Name of Subsidiary                   Incorporation    Parent           Principal Activities

				                                                     2021 2020

				                                                     %  %

   Ableway Sdn. Bhd.                    Malaysia         100 100          General trading and investment

							 holding

				

   Ataskota Sdn. Bhd.                   Malaysia         100 100          Selling, spawning and culturing

							 of prawns

				

   CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.             Malaysia         100 100          Retailing coldstorage products

   						 and investment holding

				

   CCK Fresh Mart (West Malaysia) Malaysia               100 100          Leasing buildings

		 Sdn. Bhd.

				

   CCK Sea Products Industries          Malaysia         100 100          Culturing and trading of prawns

		 (S) Sdn. Bhd.					

				

   Central Coldstorage Kuching          Malaysia         100 100          Trading cold storage goods,

		 Sdn. Bhd.					 poultry processing, importer and

   						 distributor of frozen goods and

							 investment holding

				

   C.S. Choice Food Industries          Malaysia         100 100          Manufacturing, processing,

		 Sdn. Bhd.					 packing and distribution of meat

							 and other food products

 

   Kin Eastern Frozen Food              Malaysia         100 100          Processing and dealing of frozen

		 Sdn. Bhd. 					 seafood and ice

				

   Kuok Sui Sea Products                Malaysia         100 100          Processing and exporting of sea

   Industries (S) Sdn. Bhd. 					 products

				

   Pt. Adilmart^                        Indonesia        100 100          Retailing in coldstorage products

				

   Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia                100 100          Poultry breeding, hatching of

   		 (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd. 					 eggs and trading

				

   Hawker Time Food Hall                Malaysia         100 100          Proprietors of fast-food

   Sdn. Bhd. #					 restaurants, catering services,

							 food and beverage stall or

							 hawkers and coffee shop

				

   CCK Properties Sdn. Bhd.             Malaysia         100 100          Dormant

				

   Subsidiary of Ableway Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Angkutan Golden Plan Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia               100 100          Provision of transportation

							 services

   Subsidiary of CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Mukah Seafoods Industries            Malaysia         100 100          Trading of seafood and 		

   Sdn. Bhd. 					 coldstorage foodstuff
                                                                                         75 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows (cont’d):-

			                             Principal Place Percentage of

			                             of Business/    Issued Share

			                             Country of      Capital Held by

Name of Subsidiary              Incorporation              Parent  Principal Activities

				                                            2021 2020

				                                                       %   %

				

Subsidiaries of Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia        100 100            Livestock breeding, egg laying

							 and trading

				

Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia          100 100            Poultry farming and trading

		 Sdn. Bhd.

				

Subsidiary of Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

Farm Land Supplies & Veterinary Malaysia        100 100            Providing veterinary supplies and

		 Services Sdn. Bhd.           				 related services

				

Subsidiary of Pt. Adilmart:-

				

Pt. Central Coldstorage         Indonesia                  90  90  Dormant

		 Khatulistiwa^

^ These subsidiaries were audited by member firms of Crowe Global of which Crowe Malaysia PLT is a
        member.

# The auditors’ report on the financial statements of the subsidiary includes an a “Material Uncertainty
        Related to Going Concern” regarding the ability of the subsidiary to continue as a going concern in view
        of its capital deficiency position as at the end of the current reporting period. The financial statements
        were prepared on a going concern basis as the Company has undertaken to provide continued financial
        support to the subsidiary.

(a) On 30 August 2021, the Company subscribed for 6,000,000 number of ordinary shares by capitalising
        the amount owing by subsidiaries of RM6,000,000, in a wholly-owned subsidiary, Zhang Agriculture
        Development (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd.

(b) In the previous financial year, the Company had acquired an additional 21.9% equity interests in Mukah
        Seafoods Industries Sdn. Bhd. for RM302,664 in cash, increasing its ownership from 78.1% to 100%. The
        carrying amount of Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn. Bhd.’s net assets in the Group’s financial statements
        was RM1,497,946. The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of RM288,138 and a
        decrease in retained profits of RM14,526.

		   The following summarises the effect of changes in equity interests in Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn.
     Bhd. that is attributable to the owners of the company:-

					 The Group

					 2020

					RM

					

			  Equity interest at 1 January					                                                   1,011,140

			  Effect of increase in the Company’s ownership interest			                           302,664

			  Share of post acquisition profits				                                               184,142

								

			  Equity interest at 31 December				                                                  1,497,946

								
76 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

(c) The non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period comprise the following:-

			                                                   Effective Equity
			
			                                                   Interest                     The Group
			
                                                      2021 2020              2021              2020

                                                      %        %             RM                RM

			 Pt. Central Coldstorage Khatulistiwa              10.0 10.0              92,114            92,114

						

(d) The summarised financial information (before intra-group elimination) for each subsidiary that has non-
        controlling interests is as follows:-

                                                                             Pt. Central Coldstorage

		Khatulistiwa

				                                                                         2021              2020

					                                                                        RM                RM

					

		At 31 December					

     Non-current assets			                                                         -                  -

		   Current assets			                                                       1,119,505         1,096,580

		   Non-current liabilities			                                                    -                  -

		   Current liabilities			                                                  (254,266)         (249,059)

						

		   Net assets			                                                           865,239           847,521

						

					

		Financial Year Ended 31 December				

		   Revenue			                                                                    -                  -

		   Loss for the financial year			                                                -                  -

		   Total comprehensive income			                                                 -                  -

						

					

		   Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests		        -                  -

		   Dividends paid to non-controlling interests			                                -                  -

						

		

		   Net cash flows (for)/from operating activities			                       (17,718)          23,624

		   Net cash flows from investing activities			                                   -                  -

		   Net cash flows from financing activities			                                   -                  -

						

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE					

                                          The Group                          The Company

			                                       2021           2020                2021              2020

			RM                                                    RM                  RM                RM

					

Unquoted shares, at cost                  19,930,171  19,930,171             19,930,171 19,930,171

Share of post-acquisition profits,

		 net of dividend received               15,291,024  9,757,728                    -                  -

				

				                                      35,221,195  29,687,899             19,930,171 19,930,171

				
                                                                                      77 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONT’D)

(a) The details of the associate is as follows:-

			                    Principal Place Effective Equity		

		  Name of Associate  of Business                Interest     Principal Activities

				                                              2021 2020

				                                              %  %

				

			 Gold Coin Sarawak  Malaysia                   27.20 27.20  Manufacture and sale of animal

				 Sdn. Bhd.#					 feeds, trading in feed grains

									 and livestock business

		  # The associate was audited by another firm of chartered accountants.

		  Gold Coin Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. involves in the manufacturing and sale of animal feeds, trading in feed
    grains and livestock business. It is a strategic investment for the Group as it secures a long term supply
    of quality feeds for the Group’s poultry operations and also allows the Group to venture into feed mill
    business thus enhancing the Group’s profitability.

(b) The summarised financial information (after any fair value adjustment at acquisition date) for each
        associate that is material to the Group is as follows:-

				                                                                       Gold Coin Sarawak
				
					                                                                            Sdn. Bhd.

					                                                                      2021             2020

                                                                           RM               RM

			 At 31 December					

			 Non-current assets			 11,760,000 12,961,000

			 Current assets			 208,787,000 134,540,000

			 Non-current liabilities			 (1,929,000) (2,456,000)

			 Current liabilities			 (102,122,000) (47,860,000)

							

			 Net assets			 116,496,000 97,185,000

			 Non-controlling interest			                                                  -    (1,032,000)

							

							 116,496,000 96,153,000

							

					

			 Financial Year Ended 31 December					

			 Revenue			 409,196,000 328,717,000

			 Profit for the financial year			 20,343,000 23,770,000

			 Total comprehensive income			 20,343,000 23,770,000

							

					

			 Group’s share of profit for the financial year			                      5,533,296  6,465,440

			 Dividend received			                                                         -    3,264,000

							

					

			 Reconciliation of Net Assets to Carrying Amount					

			 Group’s share of net assets above			 31,686,912 26,153,616

			 Goodwill			                                                            3,534,283  3,534,283

							

			 Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in this associate		 35,221,195 29,687,899

							
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                               78 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT								

							                                                                     Reassessment/				

							                                                                         Modification				

		                At			                                 Reclassi-		             of Lease Transfer to Depreciation Exchange     At

		                1.1.2021 Additions      Disposals     fication     Write-offs Liabilities Inventories Charges Differences 31.12.2021

The Group         RM         RM           RM            RM           RM         RM     RM       RM           RM                RM

												

2021											

Carrying Amount											

Owned assets											

Freehold land     1,436,000           -              -            -      -          -      -        -                       - 1,436,000

Buildings         45,528,717 2,961,835               - 9,099,748         -          -      - (4,093,325)     111,041 53,608,016

Furniture,fittings 									                                                                                                   		

		 and equipment  8,468,555 1,225,665                -  304,514          (753)      -      - (2,001,775)     5,186 8,001,392

Coldroom,plant									                                                                                                        		

		 and machinery  46,856,820 7,994,740    (10,108) 4,715,159         (1,033)        -      - (10,789,930)    517,991 49,283,639

Motor vehicles    2,338,529  738,065      (11,200)                -      -          -      - (1,179,447)     5,170 1,891,117

Renovation        5,480,631 1,433,230                -            -  (51,933)       -      - (1,367,516)                    - 5,494,412

Electrical 											

		 installation   479,273    50,339                  -            -      -          -      -    (54,413)                    -  475,199

Capital work in 											

		 progress       20,953,523 7,007,038    (15,000) (14,119,421) (218,453)           -  (1,260)      -        1,537 13,607,964

				

				              131,542,048 21,410,912  (36,308)                -  (272,172)      -  (1,260) (19,486,406)  640,925 133,797,739
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)								

							                                                                     Reassessment/				

							                                                                         Modification				

		                At			                                 Reclassi-		             of Lease Transfer to Depreciation Exchange     At

		                1.1.2021 Additions      Disposals     fication     Write-offs Liabilities Inventories Charges Differences 31.12.2021

The Group         RM          RM          RM            RM           RM         RM       RM     RM             RM              RM

												

2021											

Right-of-use assets											

Leasehold land    53,096,686          -              -            -      -          -        -  (602,615)      289,374 52,783,445

Buildings         18,114,613 2,404,432               -            -      -      205,674      - (2,778,207)     7,376 17,953,888

Coldroom, plant 									                                                                                                   - 		

		 and machinery  37,686              -              -            -      -          -        -  (34,786)                    -      2,900

Motor vehicles    169,066             -              -            -      -          -        -  (72,456)                    -  96,610

												

				              71,418,051 2,404,432               -            -      -      205,674      - (3,488,064)     296,750 70,836,843

				

				              202,960,099 23,815,344  (36,308)                -  (272,172)  205,674  (1,260) (22,974,470)  937,675 204,634,582

				

                                                                                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 79 //
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                             80 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)							

							 Transfer from			

		                         At					                                             Investment Depreciation Exchange         At

		                         1.1.2020  Additions     Disposals Derecognition Write-offs Properties     Charges Differences 31.12.2020

The Group                  RM        RM            RM         RM     RM        RM                    RM          RM     RM

											

2020										

Carrying Amount										

Owned assets											

Freehold land		 1,436,000                       -      -          -      -                        -      -           - 1,436,000

Buildings		 47,782,554 1,196,109                       -          -      -     745,500 (4,118,434)               (77,012) 45,528,717

Furniture,fittings 											

		 and equipment		 6,699,528 3,485,956             (3,665)        -      -                        - (1,707,001)  (6,263) 8,468,555

Coldroom,plant											

		 and machinery		 48,857,927 8,403,162            (26,071)       -  (23,322)                     - (9,875,456) (479,420) 46,856,820

Motor vehicles		 2,321,572 1,233,384               (81,943)       -      -                        - (1,126,928)  (7,556) 2,338,529

Renovation		 4,056,691 2,647,707                       -          -      -                        - (1,223,767)      - 5,480,631

Electrical installation		  229,174   285,973           -          -      -                        -  (35,874)        -  479,273

Capital work in 											

		 progress		 13,214,251 7,961,037                     -          -      -                        -      -       (221,765) 20,953,523

					

					 124,597,697 25,213,328                       (111,679)      -  (23,322)  745,500 (18,087,460) (792,016) 131,542,048
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)							

							 Transfer from			

		                  At					                                                Investment Depreciation Exchange      At

		                  1.1.2020  Additions     Disposals Derecognition Write-offs Properties     Charges Differences 31.12.2020

The Group           RM        RM            RM     RM            RM        RM                 RM          RM     RM

											

2020										

Right-of-use assets										

Leasehold land		 53,437,577 1,046,191           -      -             -                     - (1,054,110) (332,972) 53,096,686

Buildings		 12,067,563 9,526,002                -  (575,348)         -                     - (2,898,080)  (5,524) 18,114,613

Coldroom, plant 											

		 and machinery		  58,462    20,734            -      -             -                     -  (41,510)        -  37,686

Motor vehicles		    241,522              -      -      -             -                     -  (72,456)        -  169,066

											

					 65,805,124 10,592,927                     -  (575,348)         -                     - (4,066,156) (338,496) 71,418,051

					

					 190,402,821 35,806,255                (111,679) (575,348)  (23,322)  745,500 (22,153,616) (1,130,512) 202,960,099

					

											

                                                                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT 81 //
82 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

						                                                             Accumulated

				                                    At          Accumulated Impairment      Carrying

				                                    Cost        Depreciation   Losses       Amount

The Group                               RM          RM             RM           RM

				

2021				

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                           1,630,091       -          (194,091)    1,436,000

Buildings                               104,818,934 (51,210,918)           - 53,608,016

Furniture, fittings and equipment       32,427,295 (24,425,903)            -    8,001,392

Coldroom, plant and machinery           149,098,355 (99,814,716)           - 49,283,639

Motor vehicles                          19,582,340 (17,691,223)            -    1,891,117

Renovation                              19,520,992 (14,026,580)            -    5,494,412

Electrical installation                 576,713     (101,514)              -    475,199

Capital work-in-progress                13,607,964      -                  - 13,607,964

				

				                                    341,262,684 (207,270,854)  (194,091) 133,797,739

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                          62,427,216  (9,086,042)    (557,729) 52,783,445

Buildings                               25,677,307  (7,723,419)            - 17,953,888

Coldroom, plant and machinery           107,258     (104,358)              -    2,900

Motor vehicles                          362,282     (265,672)              -    96,610

				

				                                    88,574,063 (17,179,491)    (557,729) 70,836,843

				

				                                    429,836,747 (224,450,345)  (751,820) 204,634,582

				

				

2020				

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                           1,630,091       -          (194,091)    1,436,000

Buildings                               92,585,947 (47,057,230)            - 45,528,717

Furniture, fittings and equipment       30,958,126 (22,489,571)            -    8,468,555

Coldroom, plant and machinery           136,544,210 (89,687,390)           - 46,856,820

Motor vehicles                          19,205,955 (16,867,426)            -    2,338,529

Renovation                              18,221,828 (12,741,197)            -    5,480,631

Electrical installation                 526,374     (47,101)               -    479,273

Capital work-in-progress                20,953,523      -                  - 20,953,523

				

				                                    320,626,054 (188,889,915)  (194,091) 131,542,048

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                          62,137,842  (8,496,061)    (545,095) 53,096,686

Buildings                               23,094,315  (4,979,702)            - 18,114,613

Coldroom, plant and machinery           107,258     (69,572)               -    37,686

Motor vehicles                          313,978     (144,912)              -    169,066

				

				                                    85,653,393 (13,690,247)    (545,095) 71,418,051

				

				                                    406,279,447 (202,580,162)  (739,186) 202,960,099

				
                                                                              83 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				

				            At		                                            Depreciation  At

				            1.1.2021                          Additions     Charges       31.12.2021

The Company     RM                                RM            RM            RM

				

2021				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment                                  7,267  11,558        (4,115)       14,710

Renovation                                 3,107             -  (532)         2,575

				

				            10,374                            11,558        (4,647)       17,285

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land  8,665,587                                    -  (156,000)     8,509,587

				

				            8,675,961                         11,558        (160,647)     8,526,872

				

				

					                                             At            Depreciation  At

					                                             1.1.2020      Charges       31.12.2020

The Company		 RM                                                RM            RM

				

2020 			

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                       11,105        (3,838)       7,267

Renovation		                                      3,639         (532)         3,107

					

					                                             14,744        (4,370)       10,374

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                  8,821,587     (156,000)     8,665,587

					

					                                             8,836,331     (160,370)     8,675,961

					

									

		                                                At            Accumulated   Carrying

					                                             Cost          Depreciation  Amount

The Company		 RM                                                RM            RM

				

2021			

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                       68,116        (53,406)      14,710

Renovation		                                      5,324         (2,749)       2,575

					

					                                             73,440        (56,155)      17,285

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                  9,401,979     (892,392)     8,509,587

					

					                                             9,475,419     (948,547)     8,526,872

					
84 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				

					                                      At         Accumulated   Carrying

					                                      Cost       Depreciation  Amount

The Company		 RM                                      RM            RM

				

2020				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                56,558     (49,291)      7,267

Renovation		                               5,324      (2,217)       3,107

					

					                                      61,882     (51,508)      10,374

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                           9,401,979  (736,392)     8,665,587

					

					                                      9,463,861  (787,900)     8,675,961

					

(a) The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment pledged to licensed banks as security for banking
        facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements is as follows:-

		 The Group

					                                                 2021          2020

					                                                 RM            RM

			

			 Leasehold land                         		         9,896,681 10,130,342

			 Buildings                              		 12,076,407 11,736,414

						

					                                                 21,973,088 21,866,756

						

(b) Included in the assets of the Group were freehold lands with a total carrying amount of RM936,000 (2020
        – RM936,000) which were held in trust by a third party.

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee

			  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
     equipment for its operational purposes:-

		   i.) Leasehold land

			   The Group made upfront payment to secure the right-of-use of leasehold lands for a lease periods
      ranging from 14 to 906 years. Certain leasehold lands is pledged to licensed banks as security for
      banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in (a) above. There is no option to purchase
      the leasehold land at the expiry of the lease periods.
                                                  85 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee (Cont’d)

			  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
     equipment for its operational purposes:- (Cont’d)

		   ii.) Buildings

			  The Group leases a number of buildings which are used as retail stores that run between 1 year
     to 10 years, with an option to renew the leases upon the expiry of the respective lease terms.
     The lease agreements do not impose any covenant other than the ownership rights in the leased
     assets that are held by lessor. The Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased
     assets without the written consent of the lessor and the leased assets may not be used as security
     for borrowing purposes.

			  Certain buildings of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rentals
     payable monthly. Each of the leases contains an initial non-cancellable period of 1 year and the
     subsequent renewals are negotiated separately on a contract by contract basis.

		   iii.) Motor vehicle

				The motor vehicle has been leased under hire purchase arrangement. The lease is secured by the
                         leased assets with lease term of 3 years and bear effective interest rate of 3.22%. The Group has
                         an option to purchase the asset at the expiry of the lease period at an insignificant amount.

		   iv.) Coldroom, plant and equipment

			  The Group leases 38 ponds for a lease period of 3 years with an option to renew the leases upon
     the expiry of the lease terms. The lease agreement do not impose any convenants other than the
     ownership rights in the leased assets that are held by the lessor.

		   v.) Other equipment

				The Group also leases photocopier machines. The Group determines that these assets are low
                         value when it is new, regardless of the age of the assets being leased. The Group elected not to
                         recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these assets.

(d) Leases – the Group as an intermediate lessor

			  The Group subleases out buildings to third parties for monthly lease payments for a period ranging
     from 1 to 3 years and the subsequent renewals are renegotiated on a contract by contract basis. The
     sublease periods do not form part of the remaining lease terms under the head leases and accordingly,
     the subleases are classified as operating leases.

			  The Group does not require a financial guarantee. Instead, the Group requires 1 to 3 months of advance
     payments from the lessees. The leases do not include residual value guarantee and variable lease
     payments.

			  The lease income of the Group and of the Company, recognised during the financial year were RM
     49,680 (2020 – RM 52,480) and RM NIL (2020 – RM NIL) respectively.
86 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		 The Group

					                                                                           2021             2020

					                                                                           RM               RM

Cost:-			

At 1 January                                  		                                17,691,414       18,591,414
                                                                                              -    (900,000)
Transferred to property, plant and equipment			
                                                                                17,691,414       17,691,414
						
                                                                                 1,478,735        1,506,535
At 31 December                                		                                    108,700          126,700
                                                                                              -    (154,500)
			
                                                                                 1,587,435        1,478,735
Accumulated depreciation:-			                                                   16,103,979       16,212,679

At 1 January                                  		                                11,075,000       11,075,000
                                                                                 3,300,900        3,352,228
Depreciation during the financial year        		                                 1,728,079        1,785,451
                                                                                16,103,979       16,212,679
Transferred to property, plant and equipment  		
                                                                                20,450,000       20,750,000
			

At 31 December                                		

						

						

						

			

Represented by:-			

Freehold land                                 		

Leasehold land                                		

Buildings                                     		

						

At 31 December                                		

						

			

Fair value                                    		

						

(a) The investment properties of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rental
        payable monthly. The leases contain initial non-cancellable periods of 1-5 years.

			 The undiscounted operating lease payments receivable are as follows:-

		 The Group

					                                                                           2021             2020

					                                                                           RM               RM

			 Within one year                           		                                32,400           45,600

			 Between 1 and 2 years                     		                                18,000           4,800

			 Between 2 and 3 years                     		                                45,600           4,800

						

						                                                                          96,000           55,200

						

			

(b) The leasehold land and buildings have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking facilities

     granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.

(c) The fair values of the investment properties are within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and are arrived
        at by reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties and are performed by
        registered valuers having appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the
        locations and category of properties being valued. The most significant input into this valuation approach
        is the price per square foot of comparable properties.
                                                                                87 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

9. GOODWILL

		 The Group

					                                                               2021           2020

					                                                               RM             RM

Cost:-			

At 1 January/31 December                      		                    380,224        380,224

					

			

Goodwill acquired through business combination has been allocated to the Group’s trading and retailing cash-

generating units.

10. DEFERRED TAX

					                                                    Recognised		

				                                          Recognised in other 		

				                                          in profit comprehensive Exchange

			                              At 1.1.2021  or loss    income     differences At 31.12.2021

The Group                        RM           RM         RM         RM             RM

					

2021					

					

Deferred tax liabilities					

Property, plant and equipment    11,855,046 (1,164,832)          -              - 10,690,214

Unrealised gain on foreign

		 exchange                          -        1,290              -              -  1,290

			                              11,855,046 (1,163,542)          -              - 10,691,504
			

					

Deferred tax assets					

Inventory                        (5,024)      (64,509)           -              -  (69,533)

Provision for employee benefits  (176,163)    (28,387)   11,396           4,715 (188,439)

Receivables                      (28,981)     (31,386)           -              -  (60,367)

Unused tax losses and

		 unabsorbed capital allowance  (3,469,842) (314,879)           -              - (3,784,721)

Unrealised loss on foreign

		 exchange                      (1,628)      1,628              -              -        -

					

			                              (3,681,638) (437,533)   11,396           4,715 (4,103,060)

			

			                              8,173,408 (1,601,075)   11,396           4,715 6,588,444

			
88 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

10. DEFERRED TAX (CONT’D)						

								

					 Recognised		

				                                                 Recognised in other 		

				                                                 in profit comprehensive Exchange

			                                     At 1.1.2020  or loss     income       differences At 31.12.2020

The Group                               RM           RM              RM       RM          RM

					

2020					

					

Deferred tax liabilities					

Property,plant and equipment            10,259,002 1,596,044             -             - 11,855,046

			

Deferred tax assets					

Inventory                               (6,455)      1,431               -             -  (5,024)

Provision for employee benefits         (193,991)    26,076              300      (8,548) (176,163)

Receivables                             (24,259)     (4,722)             -             -  (28,981)

Unused tax losses and

		 unabsorbed capital allowance         (1,760,263) (1,709,579)          -             - (3,469,842)

Unrealised loss on foreign

		 exchange                             (1,400)          (228)           -             -  (1,628)

					

			                                     (1,986,368) (1,687,022)          300      (8,548) (3,681,638)

			

			                                     8,272,634    (90,978)            300      (8,548) 8,173,408

			

					                                                                    Recognised in 		

			                                     		                    At 1.1.2021 profit or loss At 31.12.2021

		 The Company			                                                RM           RM          RM

							

2021						

Deferred tax liabilities						

Property,plant and equipment			 1,593,155                                     (30,824) 1,562,331

					

							

Deferred tax assets						

Unused tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowance		                 (50,120) (127,038) (177,158)

					

				                                                             1,543,035    (157,862) 1,385,173

					

							

						                                                                   Recognised in 		

			                                     		                    At 1.1.2020 profit or loss At 31.12.2020

		 The Company			                                                RM           RM          RM

							

2020						

Deferred tax liabilities						

Property,plant and equipment			 1,624,653                                     (31,498) 1,593,155

					

							

Deferred tax assets						

Unused tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowance		 (149,630)                99,510      (50,120)

					

				                                                             1,475,023    68,012 1,543,035

					
                                                                                               89 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

10. DEFERRED TAX (CONT’D)

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax relates to the same taxable entity and the
same taxation authority. The amounts determined after appropriate offsetting are included in the statements of
financial position as follows:-

                           The Group                                             The Company

			                        2021         2020                                     2021           2020

			RM                                   RM                                       RM             RM

							

Deferred tax liabilities   8,380,469    9,766,525                                1,385,173     1,543,035

Deferred tax assets        (1,792,025)  (1,593,117)                                    -              -

			

			                        6,588,444    8,173,408                                1,385,173     1,543,035

			

No deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of the following items as it is not probable that taxable profits
of the subsidiaries will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward
tax losses and tax credits can be utilised:-

		                                                                                   The Group

			                        		 2021                                                              2020

					                                                                            RM             RM

        Unused tax losses 			                                                    1,598,669     1,528,629
        Unabsorbed capital allowance			                                            627,974       598,217
        Other temporary differences			                                             170,464       149,724
					
					                                                                            2,397,107     2,276,570
					

The unused tax losses are allowed to be utilised for 10 (2020: 7) consecutive years of assessment while the
unabsorbed capital allowances are allowed to be carried forward indefinitely.

11. INVENTORIES

		                                                                                   The Group

			                        		 2021                                                              2020

					                                                                            RM             RM

        At cost:-                                                                47,866,789    46,353,236
        Trading goods			                                                          2,797,926     3,587,903
        Raw materials			                                                          6,812,867     5,584,913
        Consumable stores			
					                                                                            57,477,582    55,526,052
        				                                                                        (316,057)      (25,122)
        Less: Allowance for obsolescence and impairment losses of inventories		
					                                                                            57,161,525    55,500,930
					
					
90 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS

				                                                      At         Change in                       At
                                                                                               31.12.2021
				                                                      1.1.2021   fair value
                                                                                                    RM
				                                                      RM         RM
                                                                                                 8,389,055
At fair value less costs to sell			                                                              1,349,632
                                                                                                 1,253,662
			
                                                                                                    953,897
Broiler breeders                                          9,433,143  (1,044,088)                 1,613,608

Broilers                                                  1,889,574  (539,942)                  13,559,854

Hatching eggs                                             1,028,562  225,100                         At
                                                                                               31.12.2020
Prawns                                                    578,835    375,062
                                                                                                    RM
Layers                                                    3,377,555  (1,763,947)
                                                                                                 9,433,143
				                                                                                             1,889,574
                                                                                                 1,028,562
				 16,307,669                                                      (2,747,815)
                                                                                                    578,835
				                                                                                             3,377,555

			                                                                                             16,307,669

				                                                      At         Change in

				                                                      1.1.2020   fair value

				                                                      RM         RM

At fair value less costs to sell			

			

Broiler breeders                                          8,751,414  681,729

Broilers                                                  1,674,679  214,895

Hatching eggs                                             1,502,710  (474,148)

Prawns                                                    490,564    88,271

Layers                                                    2,904,495  473,060

				

				 15,323,862                                                      983,807

				

(a) In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are required,
        which include the followings:-

		   (i) estimated selling price of table eggs, day-old chicks, broilers and spent hen;

		   (ii) estimated number of day-old chick produced by each layer breeder and broiler breeder and table
             egg to be produced by layers;

		   (iii) estimated hatchability rate of the hatching rate and mortality rate of live birds;

		   (iv) estimated feed consumption rate and feed costs and other estimated costs to be incurred for the
             remaining life of the live birds and at the point of sales;

		   (v) pre-tax discount rates of 16.97% (2020: 14.47%)
                                                                     91 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
        hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
        within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model.

Type      Description of valuation       Significant                 Inter-relationship between
           technique and inputs           unobservable                 significant unobservable
           used                           inputs                       inputs and fair value
                                                                       measurement

Breeders  Discounted cash flows:
            The valuation method
            considers the estimated      • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            quantity of day-old chick      price of the              increase/(decrease) if:-
            to be produced over            agriculture produce.
            the life of the breeders,                                • the estimated selling price of
            taking into account the      • Estimated feed              the agriculture produce were
            mortality rate of breeders     costs and overheads         higher/(lower).
            and the estimated              expected to incur
            feed costs and other           throughout the life       • the estimated feed costs and
            overheads.                     cycle.                      overheads were (higher)/
                                                                       lower.

Layers    Discounted cash flows:
            The valuation method
            considers the expected       • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            quantity and price             price of the              increase/(decrease) if:-
            of table eggs to be            agriculture produce.
            produced over the life                                   • the estimated selling price of
            of the layers, taking into   • Estimated feed              the agriculture produce were
            account layers’ mortality      costs and overheads         higher/(lower).
            rate.                          expected to incur
                                           throughout the life       • the estimated feed costs and
                                           cycle.                      overheads were (higher)/
                                                                       lower.

Broilers  Discounted cash flows:
            The valuation method
            considers the present        • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            value of net cash flows        price of the broilers at  increase/(decrease) if:-
            from sales of broilers         the point of sale.
            less estimated feed costs                                • the estimated selling price of
            and overheads incurred       • Estimated feed              the broilers at the point of sale
            to the point of sale and       costs and overheads         were higher/(lower).
            taking into account the        expected to incur
            mortality rate of broilers.    throughout the life       • the estimated feed costs and
                                           cycle.                      overheads were (higher)/
                                                                       lower.

Hatching  Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
 eggs       The valuation method           price of the day-old      increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the present          chick at the point of
            value of net cash flows        sale.                     • the estimated selling price of
            from sales of day-old                                      the day-old chick at the point
            chick less estimated         • Estimated hatching          of sale were higher/(lower).
            hatching cost and              costs and overheads
            overheads incurred to          expected to incur         • the estimated hatching costs
            the point of sale and          throughout the              and overheads were (higher)/
            taking into account            hatching process.           lower.
            the hatchability rate of
            hatching eggs.
92 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
        hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
        within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model. (Cont’d)

    Type    Description of valuation       Significant                          Inter-relationship between
             technique and inputs           unobservable                          significant unobservable
             used                           inputs                                inputs and fair value
                                                                                  measurement

    Prawns  Discounted cash flows:
              The valuation method
              considers the expected       • Estimated selling                  The estimated fair value would
              quantity of prawns to be       price of the prawns at             increase/(decrease) if:-
              harvested and expected         the point of sale.
              selling prices, taking into                                       • the estimated selling price of
              account prawns’ mortality    • Estimated feed costs                 the prawns at the point of sale
              rate.                          and other variable                   were higher/(lower).
                                             costs expected to
                                             incur up to the point              • the estimated feed costs and
                                             of harvest.                          variable costs were (higher)/
                                                                                  lower.

(c) The key assumptions used for the fair value calculations are as follows:-

		                                                                                  The Group

			                                        		 2021                                             2020

					                                                                           RM             RM

		Breeders			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (parent stock)(per bird)		         9.36 - 9.45  9.41 - 11.23
                                                                                                       1.10
		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (broiler)(per bird)		                  1.10
                                                                                              7.84 - 8.31
		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		                       8.54 - 9.47
                                                                                              5.17 - 5.77
					
                                                                                                       1.68
			
                                                                                                     19.74
		Broilers			                                                                                          4.33

		  Estimated selling price of broilers at the point of sale (per KG)		         6.25 - 6.69            0.27
                                                                                                       9.48
					

			

		Hatching eggs			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick at the point of sale (per bird)		  1.68 - 2.10

					

			

		Prawns			

		  Estimated selling price of prawns at the point of sale (per KG)		           23.60

		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per KG)		                             2.86

					

			

		Layers			

		  Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			                                   0.28

		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		                       10.93

					
                                                                                 93 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(d) Reasonable possible changes at the reporting date to one of the key assumptions, holding other
        assumptions constant, would have affected the fair value of biological assets by the amounts shown
        below.

		The Group			

		 Increase/(decrease) in fair

		                                                               value of biological assets

					                                                            2021            2020

					                                                            RM              RM

			

		Breeders			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (broiler)(per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                               908,839         862,675

		  - decrease by 10%			                                         (908,839)       (862,675)

			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (parent)(per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                               14,000          19,000

		  - decrease by 10%           		                               (14,000)        (19,000)

			

		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                               (84,000)        (122,000)

		  - decrease by 10%			                                         84,000          122,000

					

			

		Broilers			

		  Estimated selling price of broilers at the point of sale (per KG)			

		  - increase by 10%			                                         130,238         188,850

		  - decrease by 10%			                                         (130,238)       (188,850)

					

			

		Hatching eggs			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick at the point of sale (per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                               125,187         103,168

		  - decrease by 10%           		                               (125,187)       (103,168)

					

			

		Prawns			

		  Estimated selling price of prawns at the point of sale (per KG)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                               95,390          57,884

		  - decrease by 10%           		                               (95,390)        (57,884)

					

			

		Layers			

		  Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			

		  - increase by 10%			                                         161,361         337,755

		  - decrease by 10%			                                         (161,361)       (337,755)

					

		  In respect of other variables, a reasonable possible change in the assumptions used will not result in any

    material change to the fair value of the biological assets.

			
94 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

13. TRADE RECEIVABLES

		                                                                                     The Group

			                                     		 2021                                                   2020

					                                                                              RM             RM

Trade receivables:-				

- related parties			 36,269,790 31,414,971

- third parties			                                             2,331,723                      3,328,611

					

				 38,601,513 34,743,582

Less: Allowance for impairment losses			 (2,634,079) (2,110,535)

					

			                                                		 35,967,434 32,633,047

					

Allowance for impairment losses:-					

At 1 January 			                                               2,110,964                      2,238,667

Exchange differences			                                                            2,593          2,593

Addition during the financial year			                          1,069,086                          213,790

Reversal during the financial year			                                              (172,277)      (67,509)

Write-off during the financial year			                                             (376,287)      (277,006)

					

At 31 December			                                              2,634,079                      2,110,535

					

The Group’s normal trade credit terms range from 30 to 90 (2020 – 30 to 90) days.

14. OTHER RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS

                                        The Group                                  The Company

			                                     2021       2020                            2021           2020

			RM                                              RM                              RM             RM

Other receivables:-

- third parties                         1,680,911  1,799,263                       165,298        163,561

- related parties                       55,226     74,459                          4,600          9,011

- goods and services tax recoverable    272,475    460,448                               -        26,618

		

		                                      2,008,612  2,334,170                       169,898        199,190

Deposits                                2,758,130  3,074,958                             -              -

Prepayments                             4,913,756  4,926,416                       262,877        105,156

Less: Allowance for impairment losses   (30,765)         -                               -              -

		

		                                      9,649,733  10,335,544                      432,775        304,346

		

						

Allowance for impairment losses:-					

At 1 January                                  -    46,576                                -              -

Addition during the financial year      30,765           -                               -              -

Write-off during the financial year           -    (46,576)                              -              -

		

At 31 December                          30,765           -                               -              -

		

The amount owing by related parties is unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amount owing
is to be settled in cash.
                                                                                                                               95 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

15. AMOUNT OWING BY/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES

        Included in the amount owing by subsidiaries is a sum of RM15,702,000 (2020 – RM22,600,000), which is
        unsecured advances granted to subsidiaries. The advances carry interest at rate ranging from 4.25% to 5.70%
        (2020 – 4.48% to 5.70%) per annum and are repayable on demand.

        All other amounts are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amounts
        owing are to be settled in cash.
 

16. DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS

        The deposits which represent overnight placements with licensed banks of the Group at the end of the reporting
        period bore effective interest at rates ranging from 0.05% to 2.75% (2020 – 0.15% to 2.75%) per annum.

17. SHARE CAPITAL

				                                                  The Group/The Company

				                                            2021       2020            2021             2020

				                                            Number of Shares           RM               RM

						

Issued and Fully Paid-Up					

		

Ordinary Shares					

		

At 31 December/ At 1 January                    630,718,800 630,718,800 158,968,786 158,968,786

			

The holders of ordinary shares (except treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared
by the Company, and are entitled to one vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. The ordinary
shares have no par value.

18. TREASURY SHARES

        During the financial year, the Company has purchased Nil (2020 - 322,900) of its issued ordinary shares from
        the open market at an average price of RM Nil (2020 - RM0.35) per share. The total consideration paid for the
        purchase was RM Nil (2020 - RM112,205) including transaction costs. The ordinary shares purchased are held
        as treasury shares in accordance with Section 127(6) of the Companies Act 2016.

        Of the total 630,718,800 (2020 - 630,718,800) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares at the end of the
        reporting period, 4,074,100 (2020 - 4,074,100) ordinary shares are held as treasury shares by the Company.

19. RESERVES

                                                The Group                  The Company

			                                             2021       2020            2021             2020

			RM                                                      RM              RM               RM

        Non-distributable:-                       (3,433,097) (4,665,958)                -                -
        - foreign exchange translation reserve  161,053,633 149,061,197    29,324,677       32,999,254
        Distributable:-                         157,620,536 144,395,239    29,324,677       32,999,254
        - retained profits
		

		
96 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

      19. RESERVES (CONT’D)
              Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve
              The foreign exchange translation reserve arose from the translation of the financial statements of foreign
              subsidiaries whose functional currencies are different from the Group’s presentation currency.

20. OTHER PAYABLES, DEPOSITS AND ACCRUALS

                                           The Group             The Company

			                                2021               2020       2021       2020

			RM                                                 RM         RM         RM

Non-current					

		

Other payables:-

- third parties                            -   3,433,991               -    3,433,991

		

		

Current					

		

Other payables:-

- third parties                    9,221,848          6,651,111  6,975,391  3,181,554

- goods and services tax payables          -          53,353           -          -

Deposits                           2,307,964   1,443,049               -          -

Accruals                           10,429,528  13,835,670        499,965    603,965

		

		                                 21,959,340  21,983,183        7,475,356  3,785,519

		

		                                 21,959,340  25,417,174        7,475,356  7,219,510

		

Included in other payables is an amount of RM6,975,195 (2020 – RM6,615,376), which represents purchase
consideration of an investment in an associate. The amount is repayable within 4 (2020 – 5) years and is
subject to a late payment penalty fee of 6% (2020 – 6%) per annum.

21. BANK BORROWINGS

                                           The Group             The Company

			                                2021               2020       2021       2020

			RM                                                 RM         RM         RM

Long-term borrowings:-

- term loans, secured              7,133,218   7,547,626               -          -

						

Short-term borrowings:-

- bank overdrafts, secured         576,089                  -          -          -

- bankers’ acceptance, secured     25,785,255  22,995,306              -          -

- revolving credit, unsecured      6,000,000   12,000,000        6,000,000 12,000,000

- term loans, secured              819,369     1,024,754               -          -

						

                                   33,180,713  36,020,060        6,000,000 12,000,000

		

Total borrowings                   40,313,931  43,567,686        6,000,000 12,000,000

		
                                                                                97 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

21. BANK BORROWINGS (CONT’D)					
        		
        The bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

(a) a fixed charge over certain subsidiaries’ landed properties;

(b) a corporate guarantee provided by the Company; and

(c) a joint and several guarantee provided by certain directors of the Company

The repayment terms of the term loans are as follows:-

        Term loan 1 at COF + 1.50%  Repayable in 83 monthly instalments of RM5,250 each with a final
		 per annum                        instalment of RM194,250, effective from July 2014.

        Term loan 2 at BLR + 0.70%  Repayable in 180 monthly instalments of RM16,218 each, effective from
		 per annum                        March 2017.

        Term loan 3 at CFR + 1.75%  Repayable in 120 monthly instalments of RM10,519 each, effective from
		 per annum                        July 2018.

        Term loan 4 at CFR + 1.75%  Repayable in 120 monthly instalment of RM10,519 each effective from
		 per annum                        August 2018.

        Term loan 5 at CFR + 1%     Repayment in 120 monthly instalments of RM55,802 each, effective on
		 per annum                        the first day of the month following the full release of the term loan or the
			                                 expiry of the initial Availability Period.

The bankers’ acceptance of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate ranging
from 2.25% to 4.11% (2020 – 2.40% to 4.12%) per annum respectively.

The bank overdrafts of the Group at the end of the previous reporting period bore floating interest rates at
6.45% (2020 – 8.17%) per annum.

The revolving credit of the Company at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate of 4.25%
(2020 – 4.48%) per annum.

The term loans of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate ranging from 3.30%
to 4.84% (2020 – 3.30% to 4.36%) per annum.
98 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

22. LEASE LIABILITIES

		                                                    The Group

			                                     		 2021                                                 2020

					                                             RM                                            RM

At 1 January			 19,277,513 12,803,701

Additions			                                      2,404,432 10,592,927

Changes due to reassessment of lease term			      213,234                                             -

Changes due to lease modification			              (7,898)                                             -

Derecognition			                                      -                                         (575,348)

Gain on derecognition of lease liabilities			         -                                         (6,727)

Exchange differences			                           3,600                                         (4,800)

Interest expense recognised in profit or loss			  916,072                                       409,623

Repayment principal			 (2,887,955) (3,532,240)

Repayment of interest expense			                  (916,072)                                     (409,623)

				

At 31 December			 19,002,926 19,277,513

				

		

Analysed by:-					

Current liabilities			                            3,106,670                                     3,133,106

Non-current liabilities			 15,896,256 16,144,407

				

				 19,002,926 19,277,513

				

23. DEFERRED INCOME

		                                                    The Group

			                                     		 2021                                                 2020

					                                             RM                                            RM

        Government grant			                        65,850                                        65,850
        Less: Accumulated amortisation			         (65,850)                                      (47,035)
				
				                                                       -                                     18,815
				

24. TRADE PAYABLES

		                                                    The Group

			                                     		 2021                                                 2020

					                                             RM                                            RM

Trade payables:-

- third parties			 18,075,798                                                                   14,027,366
                                                                                                 8,807,946
- related parties			                              9,176,818
                                                                                                22,835,312
				

				 27,252,616

				

The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 60 to 90 (2020 – 60 to 90) days.
                                                                                      99 ANNUAL REPORT //

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

25. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

(a) The provision for employee benefits consist of the followings:-

		                                                                             The Group

			                                  		 2021                                              2020

					                                                                      RM             RM

		  Defined benefit plans			                                               856,540        880,817

					

		  The Group provides benefits for its employees who has reached the retirement age of 55 based on
    Government Regulation Number 35 Year 2021 (PP35/2021) for 2021 and the provision of Labour Law
    No. 13/2003 in Indonesia. The defined benefit plan is unfunded.

		  These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk,
    interest rate risk and investment risk.

		  The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the defined benefit plans were carried out
    by KKA Nandi and Sutana and PT Jasa Aktuaria Praptasentosa Gunajasa, a member of Institute of
    Actuaries Indonesia.

		  The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for defined
    benefit plans and its components:-

		                                                                             The Group

			                                  		 2021                                              2020

					                                                                      RM             RM

		  At 1 January			                                                        880,817        775,964

		Recognised in Profit or Loss					

    - current service cost			                                              190,719        186,062

		  - past service cost			                                                 (190,770)      3,672

		  - interest cost			                                                     60,554         48,422

							

				                                                                       60,503         238,156

		Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income

		  Remeasurement of defined benefit plans:-					

    - effect of changes in financial assumptions			                        (60,468)       29,869

							

			                                                                        (60,468)       29,869

		Other					

    Exchange differences			                                                17,977         (22,798)

		  Utilisation during the financial year			                               (42,289)       (140,374)

					

    At 31 December			                                                      856,540        880,817

					

(b)		Principal actuarial assumptions at the end of the reporting period:-

		                                                                             The Group

			                                  		 2021                                              2020

					                                                                      RM             RM

		  Discount rate			                                                            7%             7%
                                                                               10%            10%
		  Salary growth rate			
                                                                                 55             55
		  Normal retirement age			

					

		  Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
100 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

25. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONT’D)

(c) Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding
        other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit plans by the amounts shown below:-

		                                                                                The Group

			                                       		 2021                                              2020

					                                                                         RM                       RM

		Discount rate

		  Increase of 1%			                                                         (69,418)                   (1,337)
                                                                                                       175,575
		  Decrease of 1%			                                                         82,263
                                                                                                       168,416
						                                                                                                    2,802

		Salary growth rate

		  Increase of 1%			                                                         75,984

		  Decrease of 1%			                                                         (65,717)

					

		  Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan,
    it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.

		  At 31 December 2021, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit plans was 18.72 (2020 –
    19.29) years.

26. REVENUE

                                              The Group                       The Company

			                                       2021              2020              2021             2020

			RM                                                       RM                RM                       RM

        Cages rental income                      11,848            13,362                   -                -
        Dividend income                                  -                 -  10,000,000       12,264,000
        Management fee                                   -                 -
        Trading sales                                                             366,000          366,000
        Transportation income             685,346,191       655,742,223                     -                -
			                                            217,738           287,493                    -                -
			
			                                       685,575,777       656,043,078       10,366,000       12,630,000

The information on the disaggregation of revenue is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.

27. NET IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON FINANCIAL ASSETS

                                              The Group                       The Company

			                                       2021              2020              2021             2020

			RM                                                       RM                RM                       RM

Impairment losses for the financial year  1,099,851         213,790                 -                      -

Reversal of impairment losses for the 					

    financial year                        (172,277)         (67,509)                -                      -

			

				                                      927,574           146,281                 -                      -

			
                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT // 101

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

28. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION

                                             The Group               The Company

			                                          2021        2020        2021       2020

			RM                                                    RM          RM         RM

Profit before taxation is arrived				
 at after charging/(crediting):-				

Auditor’s remuneration:-				

- current financial year                     510,893     448,852     86,000       86,000

- (over)/underprovision in the previous					

		 financial year                            (2,000)     2,840             -          -

Allowance for stock obsolescence             290,935           700         -          -

Amortisation of government grant             (18,815)          -           -          -

Bad debts written off                        146,298     68,929            -          -

Depreciation of investment properties        108,700     126,700           -          -

Depreciation of property, plant					

and equipment                                22,974,470  22,153,616  160,647    160,370

Directors’ remuneration (Note 34)            4,218,854   4,152,609   351,000    382,400

Dividend income:-				

- subsidiaries                                     -           - (10,000,000) (9,000,000)

- associates                                       -           -           -    (3,264,000)

Fair value loss/(gain) on biological assets  2,747,815   (983,807)         -          -

Gain on disposal of property, plant and

		 equipment                                 (106,993)   (8,121)           -          -

Gain on modification of lease                (337)             -           -          -

Interest expense on financial liabilities 					

not at fair value through profit or loss:-					

- bank overdrafts                            21,193            13          -          -

		 - bankers’ acceptance                     660,029     880,490           -          -

		 - lease liabilities                       916,072     409,623           -          -

		 - revolving credit                        412,994     760,773     412,994    760,773

		 - term loans                              74,678      103,378           -          -

Interest income

- subsidiaries                                     -           -     (655,307) (1,018,541)

- others                                     (352,387)   (373,772)   (1,737)      (1,705)

Gain on derecognition of lease contract            -     (6,727)           -          -

(Gain)/loss on foreign exchange:-

- realised                                   (193,511)   (134,095)         -          -

- unrealised                                 (5,375)     7,056             -          -

Hiring of plant and equipment                3,600       3,600             -          -

Lease expenses:-

- short-term leases                          14,400      15,400            -          -

- low value assets                                 250         799         -          -

Lease income:-

- rental income from investment properties   (675,600)   (472,100)         -          -

- sublease of right-of-use assets            (49,680)    (52,480)          -          -

Management fee                                     -           -     (366,000)  (366,000)

Property, plant and equipment written off    272,172     23,322            -          -

Rental income on:-

- property, plant and equipment              (382,087)   (129,799)         -          -

				
102 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

28. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION (CONT’D)

                                         The Group                The Company

			                                      2021         2020        2021       2020

			RM                                                 RM          RM         RM

							

Profit before taxation is arrived					

at after charging/(crediting):- (cont’d)					

		

Rental expense on:-

- office                                 60,117       13,800            -          -

- retail store                           2,216,495    1,935,993         -          -

- rental factory                               -      14,550            -          -

- rental warehouse                       73,340       107,709           -          -

- rental of apartment                          -      1,775             -          -

- rental of coldroom                           -      7,486             -          -

- rental of farm                         51,500       38,500            -          -

- rental of mess                               -      1,734             -          -

- rental of ponds                        219,222      239,394           -          -

- rental of worker room                  77,540       67,320            -          -

- rental of equipment                    192,347      178,100           -          -

Share of profits in an equity accounted

		 associate                             (5,533,296) (6,465,440)        -          -

Staff cost:-

- short-term employee benefits           51,015,485   50,409,445  442,072    400,392

- defined contribution plan              4,406,828    4,170,205   55,398       50,135

				

29. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

                                         The Group                The Company

			                                      2021         2020        2021       2020

			RM                                                 RM          RM         RM

Income tax:

- Malaysian tax                          3,581,797    7,917,398         -          -

- Foreign tax                            5,052,092    2,976,295         -          -

				

				                                     8,633,889    10,893,693        -          -

Overprovision in previous

		 financial year:-

- Malaysian tax                          (318,133)    (375,563)         -          -

				

							

Deferred tax (Note 10):-

- origination and reversal of					

		 temporary differences                 (149,688)    307,948     (53,250)     59,018

- (Over)/underprovision in 					

		 previous financial year               (1,454,305)  (398,698)   (104,612)    8,994

							

				                                     (1,603,993)  (90,750)    (157,862)    68,012

				

				                                     6,711,763    10,427,380  (157,862)    68,012

				
                                                                      ANNUAL REPORT // 103

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

29. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)

A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to the profit before taxation at the statutory tax rate to income
tax expense at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-

                                  The Group                The Company

			                               2021         2020        2021           2020

			RM                                          RM          RM             RM

Profit before taxation            31,188,022   47,909,650  8,700,455  11,011,197

				

		

Tax at statutory tax rate of 24%  7,485,122    11,498,313  2,088,109  2,642,687

							

Tax effects of:-

Deferred tax recognised at 					

different tax rates               219,520      (262,116)         -              -

Non-taxable income                (1,614,676) (2,091,265) (2,513,319) (3,073,805)

Non-deductible expenses           2,329,008    2,057,507   371,960        490,136

Deferred tax assets not recognised 					

during the financial year         120,537      81,566            -              -

(Over)/underprovision in the 					

previous financial year:-

- current tax                     (318,133)    (375,563)         -              -

- deferred tax                    (1,454,305)  (398,698)   (104,612)      8,994

Others                            (55,310)     (82,364)          -              -

				

Income tax expense for the					

financial year                    6,711,763    10,427,380  (157,862)      68,012

				

30. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

		                                                             The Group

			                               		 2021                                 2020

					                                                      RM             RM

Items that Will Not be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss				

Remeasurement of defined benefit plans			                  49,071         (30,169)

						

							

Items that Will be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss				

Foreign exchange translation:-

- changes during the financial year			                     1,232,861  (1,200,827)

						

						                                                     1,281,932  (1,230,996)

						
104 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

31. EARNINGS PER SHARE

		                                                                                    The Group

			                                      		 2021                                                  2020

					                                                                             RM              RM

        Profit attributable to the owners of the Company (RM)			                  24,476,259      37,482,270
						

        Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:-                     630,718,800     630,718,800
        Ordinary shares at 1 January 			                                            (4,074,100)     (4,005,086)
        Effect of treasury shares held			
						                                                                            626,644,700     626,713,714
        Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		
						                                                                                      3.91            5.98
        Basic earnings per share (sen)			
						

The Company has not issued any dilutive potential ordinary shares and hence, the diluted earnings per share
is equal to the basic earnings per share.

32. DIVIDENDS

		                                                                                The Company

			                                      		 2021                                                  2020

					                                                                             RM              RM

Ordinary Shares					

		

Final dividend of 2.00 sen (2020 - 0.50 sen) per ordinary share in

		 respect of the previous financial year			 12,532,894                                           3,133,223

							

First interim dividend of Nil (2020 - 1.25 sen) per ordinary share in respect of

		 the previous financial year			                                                     -           7,833,059

						

						 12,532,894 10,966,282

						

At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 1.25 sen per ordinary share amounting to
RM7,883,985 in respect of the current financial year will be proposed for shareholders’ approval. The financial
statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by
the shareholders, will be accounted for as a liability in the financial year ending 31 December 2022.
                                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT // 105

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

(a) The cash disbursed for the purchase of property, plant and equipment is as follows:-

                                   The Group                             The Company

			                                2021                      2020        2021                2020

			RM                                                        RM          RM                  RM

			 Cost of property, plant and 					

				 equipment purchased           23,815,344                35,806,255  11,558                    -

				 (Note 7)					

			 Less: additions of new lease 					

				 liabilities (Note (c) below)  (2,404,432) (10,592,927)                               -        -

					

					                              21,410,912                25,213,328  11,558                    -

					

(b) The cash and cash equivalents comprise the followings:-

                                   The Group                             The Company

			                                2021                      2020        2021                2020

			RM                                                        RM          RM                  RM

							

			 Cash and bank balances         51,463,105                49,860,764  894,925             4,772,579
                                                                                  -                      -
			 Deposits with licensed banks   6,318,588                 9,266,229            -                      -

			 Bank overdrafts                (576,089)                       -

					

					                              57,205,604                59,126,993  894,925             4,772,579

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                               106 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows: -

						                                                                                      Bankers’  Lease            Revolving     Term

						                                                                                      Acceptance Liabilities     Credit        Loans     Total

		The Group				 RM                                                                                    RM               RM            RM        RM

						

		2021						

						

		  At 1 January 2021		 22,995,306 19,277,513 12,000,000 8,572,380 62,845,199

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows						

		  Proceeds from drawdown		                                                                -                       -             -  202,500   202,500

		  Repayment of principal		 2,789,949 (2,887,955) (6,000,000) (822,293) (6,920,299)

						

					 2,789,949 (2,887,955) (6,000,000) (619,793) (6,717,799)

		Non-cash Changes						

		  Acquisition of new leases (Note 22)		                                                   - 2,404,432                           -         -         -

		  Exchange differences (Note 22)		                                                        -         3,600                       -         -         -

		  Reassessments/Modifications of leases (Note 22)		                                       -         205,336                     -         -         -

						

					                                                                                       - 2,613,368                           -         -         -

					

		  At 31 December 2021		 25,785,255 19,002,926 6,000,000 7,952,587 56,127,400

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

						                                                   Bankers’                                       Lease      Revolving     Term

						                                                   Acceptance Liabilities                                    Credit        Loans     Total

		The Group				 RM                                                                                      RM         RM            RM        RM

						

		2020						

						

		  At 1 January 2020		 25,279,050 12,803,701 18,000,000 6,994,190 63,076,941

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows						

		  Proceeds from drawdown		                                                                         -         -              - 1,945,000 1,945,000

		  Repayment of principal		 (2,283,744) (3,532,240) (6,000,000) (366,810) (12,182,794)

						

					 (2,283,744) (3,532,240) (6,000,000) 1,578,190 (10,237,794)

		Non-cash Changes						

		  Acquisition of new leases (Note 22)		                                                            - 10,592,927             -         - 10,592,927

		  Derecognition of lease contract (Note 22)		                                                      -  (575,348)             -         -  (575,348)

		  Gain on derecognition of lease contract (Note 22)		                                              -  (6,727)               -         -  (6,727)

		  Exchange differences (Note 22)		                                                                 -  (4,800)               -         -  (4,800)

						

					                                                                                                - 10,006,052             -         - 10,006,052

					

		  At 31 December 2020		 22,995,306 19,277,513 12,000,000 8,572,380 62,845,199

					

                                                                                                                                                      ANNUAL REPORT // 107
108 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

						                                              Amount 		

						                                              Owing To                 Revolving

						                                              Subsidiaries             Credit                  Total

			 The Company			 RM                                                        RM                      RM

				

		2021				

				

		  At 1 January 2021		                             1,421,140                12,000,000              13,421,140

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows				

		  Repayment to subsidiaries		                     (130,058)                           -            (130,058)

		  Repayment of borrowing principal		                               -       (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

				                                                (130,058) (6,000,000) (6,130,058)

				

		  At 31 December 2021		                           1,291,082                6,000,000               7,291,082

				

				

						                                              Amount 		

						                                              Owing To                 Revolving

						                                              Subsidiaries             Credit                  Total

			 The Company			 RM                                                        RM                      RM

				

		2020				

				

		  At 1 January 2020		                             3,538,685                18,000,000              21,538,685

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows				

		  Repayment to subsidiaries		                     (2,117,545)                         -            (2,117,545)

		  Repayment of borrowing principal		                               -       (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

				

				                                                (2,117,545)              (6,000,000) (8,117,545)

				

		  At 31 December 2020		                           1,421,140                12,000,000              13,421,140

				

(d) The total cash outflows for leases as a leasee are as follows:-

                                         The Group                           The Company

			                                      2021       2020                     2021                    2020

			RM                                               RM                       RM                      RM

		  Interest paid on lease liabilities   916,072    409,623                             -                   -

		  Payment of lease liabilities         2,887,955  3,532,240                           -                   -

		  Payment of short-term leases         14,400                      15,400             -                   -

		  Payment of leases of low-value

			 assets                                     250                   799                -                   -

				

    		                                   3,818,677  3,958,062                           -                   -

				
                                                                                         ANNUAL REPORT // 109

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

34. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION

The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include executive directors and non-
executive directors of the Company and certain members of senior management of the Group and of the
Company.

The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:-

(a) Directors

                                    The Group             The Company

			                                 2021       2020       2021                           2020

			RM                                          RM         RM                             RM

		Directors of the Company					

    		

		Executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                          72,380     82,480     62,900                         73,000

		  - salaries, bonuses and 					

    		 other benefits               2,930,041  2,789,962                              -        -

							

					                               3,002,421  2,872,442  62,900                         73,000

		  Defined contribution plan       292,308    277,562                                -        -

					

					                               3,294,729  3,150,004  62,900                         73,000

					

							

		Non-executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                          306,460    327,760    288,100                        309,400

					

					                               3,601,189  3,477,764  351,000                        382,400

					

							

		Directors of the Subsidiaries					

    		

		Executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                                840  1,200                                  -        -

		  - salaries, bonuses and

				 other benefits                 570,960    617,370                                -        -

							

					                               571,800    618,570                                -        -

		  Defined contribution plan       45,865     56,275                                 -        -

					

					                               617,665    674,845                                -        -

					

		  Total directors’ remuneration

			 (Note 28)                       4,218,854  4,152,609  351,000                        382,400

					
110 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

35. SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

(a) Identities of Related Parties

		           Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly or
             indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making
             financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are
             subject to common control.

		           In addition to the information detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group has related
             party relationships with its directors, key management personnel and entities within the same group of
             companies.
        (b)
             Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances

		           Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also
             carried out the following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:-

                                           The Group              The Company

			                                      2021         2020        2021        2020

			RM                                                 RM          RM          RM

		Subsidiaries:-

		           - accounting fee                  -            -     24,000       24,000

		           - advisory fee income             -            -     53,400       53,400

		           - dividend income                 -            -     10,000,000  9,000,000

		           - donations                       -            -     3,947        6,029

		           - interest income                 -            -     655,307     1,018,541

		           - management income               -            -     366,000     366,000

		           - service income                  -            -     49,349       59,733

		           - sundry income                   -            -     2,855        1,441

							

		Associate:-

		           - dividend income                 -            -           -     3,264,000

		           - purchase of products      120,880,022 101,888,463        -           -

		           - freight charges           1,469,199  1,764,476           -           -

		           - sales                           -      13,566            -           -

							

		           Companies in which the

			 directors and their

			 close family members

			 have substantial

		           financial interests:-

		           - advisory fee                9,000      9,000       9,000        9,000

		           - purchase of products        30,019     60,374            -           -

		           - sale of products                -      633,460           -           -

			

							

             The significant outstanding balances of the related parties (including the allowance for impairment loss

             made) together with their terms and conditions are disclosed in the respective notes to the financial

             statements.
                                                                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT // 111

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS

        Operating segments are prepared in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group
        Managing Director as its chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to segments and to
        assess their performance on a quarterly basis. For management purposes, the Group is organised into business
        units based on their products and services provided.

        The Group is organised into 5 main reportable segments as follows:-

        • Poultry Segment – involved in the rearing and production of poultry products.

        • Prawn Segment – involved in the rearing and production of prawn and seafood products.

        • Food Service Segment – involved in the supply and trading of food products and related services.

        • Retail Segment – involved in the trading of coldstorage products.

        • Corporate Segment – involved in the provision of management services.

        (a) The Group Managing Director assesses the performance of the reportable segments based on their
                 profit before taxation. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s
                 accounting policies.

        (b) Each reportable segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of the segment
                 other than investments in associates and tax-related assets.

        (c) Each reportable segment liabilities is measured based on all liabilities of the segment other than
                 borrowings and tax-related liabilities.

        (d) Assets, liabilities and expenses which are common and cannot be meaningfully allocated to the reportable
                 segments are presented under unallocated items. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets
                 and head office expenses.

		Transactions between reportable segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects
        of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                      112 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

				                                                       			                        Food 			

		  			                                                    Poultry        Prawn       Service     Retail           Corporate      Group

2021		                                                 		  RM             RM          RM          RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue							

							

External revenue                                           83,679,281 20,335,990 5,910,243 575,650,263                        - 685,575,777

Inter-segment revenue                                      197,659,278 18,808,548     10,767 83,142,805 10,366,000 309,987,398

		

		                                                         281,338,559 39,144,538 5,921,010 658,793,068 10,366,000 995,563,175

		

Consolidation adjustments						 (309,987,398)

							

Consolidated revenue						 685,575,777

							

							

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation                (6,074,911)    709,383     (1,529) 35,223,370 9,238,377 39,094,690

Finance costs						 (2,084,966)

Share of results in an associate						 5,533,296

Consolidation adjustments						 (11,354,998)

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 31,188,022

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                     232,767         3,266             -      519,867        412,994       1,168,894
        Interest income                                        (1,225)    (70,712)      (6,057)      (272,656)         (1,737)       (352,387)
        Interest expense on lease liabilities                   9,598      15,340                     891,134                  -      916,072
        Depreciation of investment properties                          -                       -      108,700                  -      108,700
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                              -           -  15,777,682           30,828     22,974,470
        Other material non-cash items                      6,342,709      662,519     160,732         745,698                  -   1,255,527
        Share of results in an associate                     277,822      177,134      54,873                                      5,533,296
		                                                                     -                       -                -  5,533,296
                                                                                   -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

				                                 			                   Food 			

		  			                              Poultry    Prawn      Service  Retail    Corporate  Group

2021		                           		  RM         RM         RM       RM        RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                       89,612,814 20,537,378 7,707,754 265,964,906 11,035,948 394,858,800

Unallocated assets:-							

- investment in an associate						 35,221,195

- goodwill						                                                                         380,224

- deferred tax assets						 1,792,025

- current tax assets						 2,843,568

							

Consolidated total assets						 435,095,812

							

Additions to non-current assets other than financial 						

		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment        6,443,550  253,576 1,573,450 15,011,605  533,163 23,815,344

		

							

Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                  26,761,427 1,877,392  943,651 48,707,659 18,502,335 96,792,464

Unallocated liabilities:-							

- deferred tax liabilities						 8,380,469

- lease liabilities						 19,002,926

- current tax liabilities						 3,081,003

- consolidated adjustments						 (6,410,037)

							                                                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT // 113

Consolidated total liabilities						 120,846,825

							
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                      114 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

				                                                       			                        Food 			

		  			                                                    Poultry        Prawn       Service     Retail           Corporate      Group

2020		                                                 		  RM             RM          RM          RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue							

							

External revenue                                           96,900,356 18,347,752 13,522,013 527,272,957                       - 656,043,078

Inter-segment revenue                                      193,339,776 13,484,642     11,210 92,636,589 12,630,000 312,102,217

		

		                                                         290,240,132 31,832,394 13,533,223 619,909,546 12,630,000 968,145,295

		

Consolidation adjustments						 (312,102,217)

							

Consolidated revenue						 656,043,078

							

							

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation                9,564,187      629,263 1,624,746 33,851,731 11,898,098 57,568,025

Finance costs						 (2,154,277)

Share of results in an associate						 6,465,440

Consolidation adjustments						 (13,969,538)

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 47,909,650

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                     338,292         7,357             -      638,232        760,773       1,744,654
        Interest income                                        (2,402)    (44,979)    (12,399)       (312,287)         (1,705)       (373,772)
        Interest expense on lease liabilities                   7,694      27,252                     374,677                  -      409,623
        Depreciation of investment properties                          -                       -      126,700                  -      126,700
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                              -           -  14,286,047           30,551     22,153,616
        Other material non-cash items                      7,044,137      640,727     152,154         261,227                  -      238,771
        Share of results in an associate                       (6,965)    (15,256)        (235)                                    6,465,440
		                                                                     -                       -                -  6,465,440
                                                                                   -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

				                                 			                   Food 			

		  			                              Poultry    Prawn      Service  Retail  Corporate  Group

2020		                           		  RM         RM         RM       RM      RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                       95,064,448 22,837,531 6,348,876 254,790,206 14,035,900 393,076,961

Unallocated assets:-						

- investment in an associate						 29,687,899

- goodwill						                                                                       380,224

- deferred tax assets						 1,593,117

- current tax assets						 1,161,961

							

Consolidated total assets						 425,900,162

								

Additions to non-current assets other than financial 						

		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment        3,687,931  347,173        550 29,681,124 2,089,477 35,806,255

		

							

Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                  24,672,854 2,160,447  735,077 47,505,574 24,333,470 99,407,422

Unallocated liabilities:-						

- deferred tax liabilities						 9,766,525

- lease liabilities						 19,277,513

- current tax liabilities						 3,112,630

- consolidated adjustments						 (6,687,618)                                                             ANNUAL REPORT // 115

							

Consolidated total liabilities						 124,876,472

								
116 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

    GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

    Revenue is based on the country in which the customers are located.

    Non-current assets are determined according to the country where these assets are located. The amounts of
    non-current assets do not include financial instruments and deferred tax assets.

		                                             Revenue                                Non-current Assets

				                                     2021           2020                          2021           2020

		 Group		RM                                            RM                            RM             RM

							

    Australia                            1,022,831      537,242                             -              -

    Indonesia                            138,627,277 116,089,567            37,732,216           35,632,472

    Hong Kong                                  -        260,600                             -              -

    Japan                                5,880,502      6,851,922                           -              -

    Korea                                1,685,177                       -                  -              -

    Middle East                                -        343,512                             -              -

    Malaysia                             537,834,618 531,212,386 218,607,764 213,608,429

    Taiwan                               525,372        747,849                             -              -

				

				                                     685,575,777 656,043,078 256,339,980 249,240,901

				

    MAJOR CUSTOMERS

    There is no single customer that contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue.

37. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

		                                                                                        The Group

			                                      		 2021                                                     2020

					                                                                                 RM             RM

    Purchase of property, plant and equipment			                                      352,500        439,760

						

							

							

38. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

    No provisions are recognised on the following matters as it is not probable that a future sacrifice of economic
    benefits will be required or the amount is not capable of reliable measurement:-

		                                                                                        The Group

			                                      		 2021                                                     2020

					                                                                                 RM             RM

							

    Performance guarantee extended by a subsidiary to third parties		                 4,017,736  4,427,171

						

    The performance guarantee is supported by a corporate guarantee provided by the Company.
                                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT // 117

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of market risk (including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk
and equity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses
on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s
financial performance.

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES

		  The Group’s policies in respect of the major areas of treasury activity are as follows:-

		(a) Market Risk

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk

				  The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are
      denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of entities within
      the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”)
      and Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing
      basis to ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level.

				  The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk (a currency which is other than the functional
      currency of the entities within the Group) based on the carrying amounts of the financial
      instruments at the end of the reporting period is summarised below:-

				Foreign Currency Exposure

		                              Indonesian     United         Ringgit

		                              Rupiah         States Dollar  Malaysia                           Total

      The Group                 RM             RM             RM                                 RM

				

				2021				

				

				Financial Assets				

				  Trade receivables         6,453,881      1,419,859      28,093,694                         35,967,434

				  Other receivables 				

					 and deposits              161,700                -      4,301,802                          4,463,502

				  Deposits with licensed 				

					 banks                                 -          -      6,318,588                          6,318,588

				  Cash and bank balances 22,894,034        3,848          28,565,223                         51,463,105

							

							                         29,509,615     1,423,707      67,279,307                         98,212,629

							

				Financial Liabilities				

				  Trade payables            8,518,307              -      18,734,309                         27,252,616

				  Other payables,

					 deposits and accruals 4,331,914                  -      17,627,426                         21,959,340

				  Bank borrowings:-				

				  - bank overdrafts                     -          -      576,089                            576,089

				  - other borrowings                    -          -      39,737,842                         39,737,842

				  Lease liabilities                     -          -      19,002,926                         19,002,926

							

							                         12,850,221             -      95,678,592 108,528,813

							

				  Net financial				

					 assets/(liabilities)      16,659,394     1,423,707 (28,399,285) (10,316,184)

				  Less: Net financial 				

					 (assets)/liabilities 				

					 denominated in the				

					 respective entities’

					 functional currencies (16,659,394)               -      28,399,285                         11,739,891

							

				  Currency exposure                     -  1,423,707                                      -  1,423,707

							
118 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

				Foreign Currency Exposure (Cont’d)

		                                           Indonesian         United      Ringgit     Total
		                                             Rupiah       States Dollar  Malaysia      RM
                                                  RM
                                  The Group                       RM          RM
				
				2020

				Financial Assets				

				  Trade receivables                      6,956,459      918,591        24,757,997   32,633,047

				  Other receivables 				

					 and deposits                           540,741        -              4,407,939    4,948,680

				  Deposits with licensed

					 banks                                              -  -              9,266,229    9,266,229

				  Cash and bank balances 14,437,930                     459,628        34,963,206   49,860,764

							

							                                      21,935,130     1,378,219      73,395,371   96,708,720

							

				

				Financial Liabilities				

				  Trade payables                         6,930,863      -              15,904,449   22,835,312

				  Other payables, 				

					 deposits and accruals 3,950,325                       -              21,413,496   25,363,821

				  Bank borrowings:-				

				  - other borrowings                                 -  -              43,567,686   43,567,686

				  Lease liabilities                                  -  -              19,277,513   19,277,513

							

							                                      10,881,188     - 100,163,144 111,044,332

							

				  Net financial				

					 assets/(liabilities)                   11,053,942     1,378,219 (26,767,773) (14,335,612)

				  Less: Net financial 				

					 (assets)/liabilities 				

					 denominated in the

					 respective entities’

					 functional currencies (11,053,942)                    -              26,767,773   15,713,831

							

				  Currency exposure                                  -  1,378,219                -  1,378,219

							
                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT // 119

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

      Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				  The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the
      foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

		                                                       The Group

			                                      		 2021                    2020

					                                                RM             RM

		    Effects on Profit after Taxation   			

				  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			               + 108,000    + 105,000
                                                     - 108,000    - 105,000
					  – weakened by 10% 			
                                                                  + 840,000
				Effects on Equity			                                          - 840,000
                                                                  + 105,000
				  IDR/RM – strengthened by 10% 			               + 1,266,000  - 105,000
                                                     - 1,266,000
					  – weakened by 10% 			

				  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			               + 108,000

					  – weakened by 10% 			                         - 108,000

							

			  (ii) Interest Rate Risk

				  Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
      will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest
      rate risk arises mainly from its long-term borrowings with variable rates. The Group’s policy
      is to obtain the most favourable interest rates available.

				  The Group’s deposits with licensed banks are carried at amortised cost. Therefore, they are
      not subject to interest rate risk as defined MFRS 7 since neither their carrying amount nor
      the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.

				  The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk based on the carrying amounts of the financial

      instruments at the end of the reporting period is disclosed in Note 21 to the financial

      statements.

 

				Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				  The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the
      interest rates at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

		                                                       The Group

			                                      		          2021           2020

					                                                RM             RM

			

				Effects on Profit after Taxation			

				  Increase of 25 basis points			                 - 15,000       - 16,000
				  Decrease of 25 basis points			                 + 15,000       + 16,000

				Effects on Equity			

				  Increase of 25 basis points			                 - 15,000       - 16,000
                                                                    + 16,000
				  Decrease of 25 basis points			                 + 15,000

							
120 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			

			  (iii) Equity Price Risk

				  The Group does not have any quoted investments and hence, is not exposed to equity price
      risk.

		(b) Credit Risk

			  The Group’s exposure to credit risk, or the risk of counterparties defaulting, arises mainly from its
     trade and other receivables. The Group manages its exposure to credit risk by the application of
     credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis. For other financial
     assets (including deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances), the Group minimises
     credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.

			  The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to subsidiaries,
     and corporate guarantee given to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain
     subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments
     made by the subsidiaries.

			  (i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile

				  The Group does not have any major concentration of credit risk related to any individual
      customer or counterparty.

			  (ii) Maximum exposure to Credit Risk

				  At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the
      carrying amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statement of financial
      position of the Group and of the Company after deducting any allowance for impairment
      losses (where applicable).

				  In addition, the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk also includes corporate
      guarantees provided to its subsidiaries of RM30,989,382 (2020: RM29,371,453),
      representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the
      reporting period. These corporate guarantees have not been recognised in the Company’s
      financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition was not material.

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses

				  At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of financial assets at amortised
      cost are credit impaired.

				  The gross carrying amounts of those financial assets are written off when there is no
      reasonable expectation of recovery despite they are still subject to enforcement activities.

				  A financial asset is credit impaired when any of following events that have a detrimental
      impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred:-

				  -            significant financial difficulty of the receivable;

				  -            a breach of contract, such as a default or a past due event;

				  -            restructuring of a debt in relation to the receivable’s financial difficulty;

				  -            it is becoming probable that the receivable will enter bankruptcy and other financial

                   reorganisation.

 
                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT // 121

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Trade Receivables

				  The Group applies the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses
      a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.

				Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables (including related parties) have
      been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.

				  The Group measures the expected credit losses of certain major customers, trade
      receivables that are credit impaired and trade receivables with a high risk of default on an
      individual basis.

				  The Group considers any trade receivables having financial difficulty or in default with
      significant balances outstanding for more than 150 days as credit impaired and assesses
      for their risk of loss individually. The Group uses a more lagging past due criterion for certain
      trade receivables when it is more appropriate to reflect their loss patterns.

				  The expected loss rates are based on the historical credit losses experienced, adjusted
      to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the
      ability of the customers to settle their debts.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared
      to the previous financial year.

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

			                                                  Gross      Lifetime Loss  Carrying

			                                                  amount     Allowance      Amount

      The Group		 RM                                            RM             RM

				

				2021				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 24,097,766                       (4,535) 24,093,231

				  1 to 30 days past due		                        4,879,754  (8,814)        4,870,940

				  31 to 60 days past due		                       1,975,098  (9,092)        1,966,006

				  61 to 90 days past due		                       657,674    (71,945)       585,729

				  More than 90 days past due		                   5,216,860  (1,092,495)    4,124,365

								

								 36,827,152                                             (1,186,881) 35,640,271

				Credit impaired:-				

				  - individually impaired		                      1,774,361  (1,447,198)    327,163

								

								 38,601,513                                             (2,634,079) 35,967,434

								
122 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Trade Receivables (Cont’d)

				Allowance for Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

			                                                               Gross      Lifetime Loss  Carrying
                                                                               Allowance    Amount
			                                                               amount           RM
                                                                                               RM
      The Group		 RM

				2020				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 22,295,222                                              - 22,295,222

				  1 to 30 days past due		                                     4,764,889            -    4,764,889

				  31 to 60 days past due		                                    1,458,885            -    1,458,885

				  61 to 90 days past due		                                    857,759              -    857,759

				  More than 90 days past due		                                3,777,080  (873,381)      2,903,699

								

								 33,153,835                                                          (873,381) 32,280,454

				Credit impaired:-				

				  - individually impaired		                                   1,589,747  (1,237,154)    352,593

								

								 34,743,582                                                          (2,110,535) 32,633,047

								

				  The movements in the loss allowances in respect of trade receivables are disclosed in Note
      13 to the financial statements.

				Other Receivables (Including Related Parties)

				  The Group applies the 3-stage general approach to measure expected credit losses for its
      other receivables and amount owing by related parties.

				Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  Under this approach, the Group assesses whether there is a significant increase in credit
      risk for receivables by comparing the risk of a default as at the reporting date with the
      risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. The Group considers there has been a
      significant increase in credit risk when there are changes in contractual terms or delay in
      payment. Regardless of the assessment, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if
      a receivable is more than 30 days past due in making a contractual payment.

				  The Group uses 3 categories to reflect their credit risk and how the loss allowance is

      determined for each category:-

				

      Category                           Definition of Category                        Loss Allowance

      Performing:                        Receivables have a low risk of default and    12-month expected
                                         a strong capacity to meet contractual cash    credit losses
                                         flows

      Underperforming: Receivables for which there is a significant Lifetime expected

                                         increase in credit risk                       credit losses

      Not performing:                    There is evidence indicating the receivable   Lifetime expected
                                         is credit impaired or more than 90 days past  credit losses
                                         due
                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT // 123

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Other Receivables (Including Related Parties) (Cont’d)

			Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				  The Group measures the expected credit losses of receivables having significant balances,
      receivables that are credit impaired and receivables with a high risk of default on an
      individual basis.

				  Loss allowance is measured on either 12-month or lifetime expected credit losses,
      by considering the likelihood that the receivable would not be able to repay during the
      contractual period (probability of default, PD), the percentage of contractual cash flows
      that will not be collected if default happens (loss given default, LGD) and the outstanding
      amount that is exposed to default risk (exposure at default, EAD).

				  In deriving the PD and LGD, the Group considers the receivable’s past payment status and
      its financial condition as at the reporting date. The PD is adjusted to reflect current and
      forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the receivable
      to settle its debts.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared

      to the previous financial year.

				

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

			                                                  Gross      Lifetime Loss  Carrying

			                                                  amount     Allowance      Amount

      The Group		 RM                                            RM             RM

				

				2021				

				

				  Low credit risk		                              4,463,502             -   4,463,502

				  Credit impaired		                              30,765     (30,765)                 -

								

								                                             4,494,267  (30,765)       4,463,502

								

				

				2020				

				

				  Low credit risk		                              4,948,680             -   4,948,680

								

				

				  The movements in the loss allowances in respect of other receivables are disclosed in Note

      14 to the financial statements.

				Deposits with Licensed Banks, Cash and Bank Balances

				  The Group considers the licensed banks have low credit risks. In addition, some of the bank
      balances are insured by Government agencies. Therefore, the Group is of the view that the
      loss allowance is immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.
124 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Amount owing by Subsidiaries

				  The Company applies the 3-stage general approach to measuring expected credit losses
      for all inter-company balances.

				Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  The Company measures the expected credit losses on an individual basis, which is aligned
      with its credit risk management practices on the inter-company balances.

				  The Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risks. The
      Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s
      financial position deteriorates significantly.

				  For loans and advances that are repayable on demand, impairment loss is assessed based
      on the assumption that repayment of the outstanding balances is demanded at the reporting
      date. If the subsidiary does not have sufficient highly liquid resources when the loans and
      advances are demanded, the Company will consider the expected manner of recovery to
      measure the impairment loss; the recovery manner could be either through “repayable over
      time” or a fire sale of less liquid assets by the subsidiary.

				  For loans and advances that are not repayable on demand, impairment loss is measured
      using techniques that are similar for estimating the impairment losses of other receivables
      as disclosed above.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared
      to the previous financial year.

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

				  At the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amount owing is not

      recoverable other than those which had already impaired in the previous financial year.

 

				Financial Guarantees Contract

				  All of the financial guarantee contracts are considered to be performing, have low risks of
      default and historically there were no instances where these financial guarantee contracts
      were called upon by the parties of which the financial guarantee contracts were issued to.
      Accordingly, no loss allowances were identified based on 12-month expected credit losses.

		(c) Liquidity Risk

			  Liquidity risk arises mainly from general funding and business activities. The Group practises
     prudent risk management by maintaining sufficient cash balances and the availability of funding
     through certain committed credit facilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis

			  The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows
     (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):-

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2021							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing             6.00          6,975,195   7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877             -

			  - non-interest bearing         -             42,236,761  42,236,761    42,236,761      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bank overdraft               6.45          576,089     576,089       576,089         -            -                 -

			  - bankers’ acceptance          2.25 - 4.11 25,785,255    25,785,255    25,785,255      -            -                 -

			  - revolving credit             4.25          6,000,000   6,000,000     6,000,000       -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   3.30 - 4.84   7,952,587   8,521,652     1,116,686   1,116,686    5,509,816    778,464

			  Lease liabilities              4.41 - 6.45 19,002,926    22,786,560    3,987,077   3,386,610    9,138,633    6,274,240

					

					                                            108,528,813 113,217,494    83,306,758  7,159,706    15,698,326   7,052,704

					

                                                                                                                                                                     ANNUAL REPORT // 125
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                    126 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2020							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing             6.00          6,615,376   7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877             -

			  - non-interest bearing         -             41,583,757  41,583,737    41,583,737      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bankers’ acceptance          2.40 - 4.12 22,995,306    22,995,306    22,995,306      -            -                 -

			  - revolving credit             4.48          12,000,000  12,000,000    12,000,000      -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   3.30 - 4.36   8,572,380   9,096,473     5,770,211   447,072      1,906,110    973,080

			  Lease liabilities              4.41 - 9.36 19,277,513    23,647,360    3,958,690   3,381,557    9,152,693    7,154,420

					

					                                             111,044,332 116,634,053   89,912,834  6,485,039    12,108,680   8,127,500

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

					                                             Weighted					

					                                             Average		               Contractual On Demand 		

					                                             Effective  Carrying     Undiscounted  or Within 		

					                                  Interest Rate         Amount       Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years

			The Company		                                  %          RM           RM            RM          RM           RM

							

			2021							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing		                         6.00       6,975,195    7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877

			  - non-interest bearing		                     -          500,161      500,161       500,161         -            -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries		               -          1,291,082    1,291,082     1,291,082       -            -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - revolving credit		                         4.25       6,000,000    6,000,000     6,000,000       -            -

			  Financial guarantee contract *		             -                    -  30,989,382    30,989,382      -            -

						

						                                                       14,766,438   46,091,802    42,385,515  2,656,410    1,049,877

     			

                                                                                                                              ANNUAL REPORT // 127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                              128 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

					                                             Weighted					

					                                             Average		               Contractual On Demand 		

					                                             Effective  Carrying     Undiscounted  or Within 		

					                                  Interest Rate         Amount       Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years

			The Company		                                  %          RM           RM            RM          RM           RM

							

			2020							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing		                         6.00       6,615,376    7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877

			  - non-interest bearing		                     -          604,134      604,134       604,134         -            -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries		               -          1,421,140    1,421,140     1,421,140       -            -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - revolving credit		                         4.48       12,000,000   12,000,000    12,000,000      -            -

			  Financial guarantee contract *		             -                    -  29,371,453    29,371,453      -            -

						

						                                                       20,640,650   50,707,904    47,001,617  2,656,410    1,049,877

						

			  * The contractual undiscounted cash flows represent the outstanding credit facilities of the subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period. The
           financial guarantees have not been recognised in the financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition were not material.
                                                                         ANNUAL REPORT // 129

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT

		  The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to maintain an optimal
    capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholder(s) value. To achieve this
    objective, the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic
    conditions, such as adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or
    issuing new shares.

			The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and
                 regulatory, if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group
                 includes within net debt, loans and borrowings from financial institutions less cash and cash equivalents.
                 Capital includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent and non-controlling interests. The debt-
                 to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period was as follows:-

		                                                              The Group

			                                 		 2021                                2020

					                                                       RM             RM

		  Bank borrowings:-

		  - bank overdrafts			                                    576,089                     -
                                                                          19,277,513
		  - lease liabilities			 19,002,926                                     43,567,686

		  - other borrowings			 39,737,842                                      62,845,199
                                                                           (9,266,229)
					                                                                    (49,860,764)

					 59,316,857                                                            3,718,206

		  Less: Deposits with licensed banks			                   (6,318,588)  301,023,690

		  Less: Cash and bank balances			 (51,463,105)                                   0.01

					

		  Net debt			                                             1,535,164

					

					

		  Total equity			 314,248,987

					

					

		  Debt-to-equity ratio			                                     0.00

					

		  There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

39.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                    The Group               The Company

			                                 2021        2020        2021           2020

			RM                                           RM          RM             RM

		Financial Assets					

    		

		Amortised Cost

		  Trade receivables               35,967,434  32,633,047        -                               -

		  Other receivables and deposits  4,463,502   4,948,680   169,898        172,572

		  Amount owing by subsidiaries          -           -     84,779,781   96,588,118

		  Deposits with licensed banks    6,318,588   9,266,229         -                               -

		  Cash and bank balances          51,463,105  49,860,764  894,925      4,772,579

			

			                                 98,212,629  96,708,720  85,844,604 101,533,269

			
130 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2021

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

                                         The Group                The Company

			                                      2021        2020         2021        2020

			RM                                                RM           RM          RM

		Financial Liabilities					

		

		Amortised Cost					

		  Trade payables                       27,252,616  22,835,312         -           -

		  Other payables, deposits

			 and accruals                         21,959,340  25,363,821   7,475,356   7,219,510

		  Amount owing to subsidiaries               -           -      1,291,082   1,421,140

		  Bank borrowings:-					

		  - bank overdrafts                    576,089           -            -           -

		  - other borrowings                   39,737,842  43,567,686   6,000,000 12,000,000

		  Lease liabilities                    19,002,926  19,277,513         -           -

				

				                                     108,528,813 111,044,332  14,766,438  20,640,650

				

39.4 GAINS OR LOSSES ARISING FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                         The Group                The Company

			                                      2021        2020         2021        2020

			RM                                                RM           RM          RM

							

		Financial Assets					

		

		Amortised Cost					

		  Net losses/(gains) recognised in

			 profit or loss                       575,187     (227,491)    (1,737)      (1,705)

				

							

		Financial Liabilities					

		

		Amortised Cost					

    Net losses recognised in 					

    profit or loss                       1,168,894   1,744,654    412,994     760,773

				

39.5 FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

		  As the end of the reporting period, there were no financial instruments carried at fair values in the
    statement of the financial position.

		  The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group maturing within the next 12
    months approximated their carrying amounts due to the relatively short-term maturity of the financial
    instruments or repayable on demand terms.

		  The fair values of the term loans approximate their carrying amounts as they are repriced to market
    interest rates on or near the reporting date.
                                   ANNUAL REPORT // 131

ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

The following information is presented in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad:

AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

The amount of audit fees payable to the Company’s external auditors, Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT (“CM”) for the
financial year ended 31 December 2021 by the Company and the Group are RM86,000 and RM370,500 respectively.
The amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group for the financial year
ended 31 December 2021 to CM and a firm or corporation affiliated to CM amounted to RM90,200 and RM163,100
respectively.

UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS

There were no proceeds raised from corporate proposals during the financial year under review.

MATERIAL CONTRACT INVOLVING INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS

There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interests of Directors and major shareholders,
either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2021 or entered into since the end of the
previous financial year.
132 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES

     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2021

Location                   Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                           Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
Jl. Bhumimas I                                               Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
No. 9, Kawasan                                               Revaluation
Industrial Cikupamas
Cikupa Tangerang           Factory, Office and  Leasehold    31.12.2020    21        2.802    13,370,300
15710 Banten, Indonesia    Warehouse            Expiring on
                                                17.06.2028
Lot 4147, Block 19
Seduan Land District       Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    15        3.571    11,019,308
Upper Lanang Road          Coldroom and         Expiring on
96000 Sibu, Sarawak        Warehouse            10.01.2071

H.S.(D.) No. 19776         Industrial Factory   Freehold     31.12.2021    21        0.518    11,075,000
P.T. No. 22244
Mukim of Batu              Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    26        5.671    9,766,565
Daerah Gombak              Coldroom and         Expiring on
State of Selangor          Abattoir             24.09.2117

Lot 999, Section 66        Layer Farm           Leasehold    31.12.2020    9         17.295
Jalan Keluli               Layer Farm           Expiring on
Bintawa Industrial Estate  Layer Farm           17.04.2116   31.12.2020    9         30.999   7,852,006
93450 Kuching, Sarawak     Vegetable Farm
                           Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    9         10.459
Lot 511, Block 9                                Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                       17.04.2116   31.12.2020    4         12.531   6,885,537
Bau, Sarawak
                                                Leasehold    31.12.2021    10        12.320   6,301,595
Bau Occupation Ticket No.                       Expiring on
3574, Bau Land District,                        17.04.2116
Sarawak
                                                Leasehold
Lot 16, Block 9                                 Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                       16.05.2073
Bau, Sarawak
                                                Leasehold
Lot 2704, Block 24                              Expiring on
Muara Tuang Land District                       02.07.2929
Sarawak

Country Lease No.
025092602 Papar
District of Papar, Sabah
                                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT // 133

LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES (Cont’d)

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2021

Location                     Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                             Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
                                                               Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
                                                               Revaluation

Lot 123,                     Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    19        12.390
Senggi-Poak Land District    Broiler Farm         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                  Broiler Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    19        33.169
                             Broiler Farm                      31.12.2020
Lot 124,                                          Leasehold                                     6,063,391
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       09.02.2116                 19        2.720

Lot 202,                                          Leasehold    31.12.2020    19        4.960
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       10.04.2077

Lot 203,                                          Leasehold
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       17.04.2077

Lot 604, Block 9             Breeder Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    31        15.250
Senggi-Poak Land District    Vacant land          Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                 Breeder Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    -         5.501
                             Breeder Farm                      31.12.2020
Lot 650, Block 9                                  Leasehold                                     5,901,049
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                                      11.05.2116                 31        14.443

Lot 1097, Block 9                                 Leasehold    31.12.2020    31        8.520
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                                      18.04.2116

Bau Occupation Ticket No.                         Leasehold
2596 of 1934,                                     Expiring on
Bau Land District, Sarawak                        21.11.2116

Country Lease No.            Factory, Office and  Leasehold    31.12.2021    24        2.679    5,591,500
025339753 & 025339762        Warehouse            Expiring on
Lok Kawi, District of Papar                       31.12.2042
Sabah
134 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 1 APRIL 2022

SHARE CAPITAL		

		

Total number of issued shares : 630,718,800

Issued share capital  : RM158,968,786

Class of shares       : Ordinary shares

Voting rights         : One vote per ordinary share

 No. of        Size of shareholdings                    % of holders         No. of shares        % of issued
holders                                                                                              capital#
               less than 100 shares                             2.15                    4,080            0.00
    105        100 - 1,000 shares                             15.72                 405,383              0.07
    769        1,001 - 10,000 shares                          46.09             11,451,932               1.83
  2,254        10,001 - 100,000 shares                        30.93             45,844,817               7.34
  1,513        100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares                        256,860,472               41.14
    246        5% and above of issued shares                    5.03          309,858,716               49.62
               -                                                0.08          624,425,400             100.00
        4                                                    100.00
  4,891

Note:
# excluding 6,293,400 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2022.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 1 April 2022)

No. Name                                                              No. of shares held

 1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.    Direct Interest          %#     Indirect Interest      %#
 2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.            138,170,076                                              -
 3. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.      103,426,080            22.13                    -
 4. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                  33,591,272                                       22.13
 5. Lau Liong Kii                                34,671,288           16.57  138,170,076(a)             -
 6. Puan Sri Datin Wong Bak Hee                  14,740,752(c)
 7. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                           2,589,224           5.38                     -  38.69
 8. Tiong Chiong Soon                             1,699,624                                        4.33
 9. Chong Shaw Fui                                1,515,360           5.55   241,596,156(b)
                                                               -                                  38.69
                                                                      2.36   27,043,084(d)        38.69
                                                                                                  38.69
                                                                      0.42   241,596,156(b)
                                                                                                   5.38
                                                                      0.27   241,596,156(e)

                                                                      0.24   241,596,156(e)

                                                                          -  33,591,272(f)

Notes:
 # excluding 6,293,400 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2022.

(a) Deemed interested through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of their substantial shareholdings in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak

      Sdn. Bhd.
(c) 3,204,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 3,882,896 shares are held through CGS-CIMB

      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(d) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholding in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.   
(e) Deemed interested by virtue of their directorships in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
(f) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT // 135

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (Cont’d)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2022

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 1 April 2022)

No. Name                                                                 No. of shares held

                                         Direct Interest                 %#     Indirect Interest    %#
                                                                                                   39.11
1. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk           34,671,288                      5.55   244,185,380(a)      5.38
                                                                                                   39.17
2. Chong Shaw Fui                                                     -      -  33,601,272(b)      38.69
                                                                                                    0.69
3. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                   1,699,624                       0.27   244,567,888(c)      6.93
                                                                                                    0.53
4. Tiong Chiong Soon                     1,515,360                       0.24   241,596,156(d)
                                                                                                         -
5. Kueh Chung Peng                       11,420,664(e)                   1.83   4,307,400(f)             -
                                                                                                         -
6. Lau Liong Kii                         14,740,752(g)                   2.36   43,280,352(h)

7. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng     521,428(i)                      0.08   3,311,988(j)

8. Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang  198,400                         0.03                -

9. Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen                                         -      -               -

10. Bong Wei Leong                                                    -      -               -

The Directors by virtue of their interests in shares in the Company are also deemed to have interests in shares in all of
its related corporations to the extent the Company has an interest, pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

Notes:
 # excluding 6,293,400 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2022.

(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise
      Sdn. Bhd., and the interest of his spouse in the Company.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and the interest of his child in
      the Company.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., and
      the interests of his spouse in the Company.

(d) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.

(e) 9,795,892 shares are held through CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 1,624,772 shares are held through RHB Nominees
      (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(f) Deemed interested by virtue of the interest of his children in the Company.

(g) 3,204,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 3,882,896 shares are held through CGS-CIMB
      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(h) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd., and the interests of his spouse and
      children in the Company.

(i) 393,132 shares are held through AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(j) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Tseng Tseng Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and De Supreme Sdn. Bhd.
136 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (Cont’d)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2022

THIRTY LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS                                         No. of shares   %#
 No. Name                                                                           138,170,076   22.13
                                                                                    103,426,080   16.56
  1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                      34,671,288   5.55
  2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                                  33,591,272   5.38
                                                                                      27,043,084   4.33
  3. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                                                      19,819,100   3.17

  4. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                            14,142,800   2.26

  5. Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.                                                  11,439,200   1.83

  6. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                           9,795,892   1.57
          - Employees Provident Fund Board
                                                                                       7,653,760   1.23
  7. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                           7,021,300   1.12
          - Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) (Kenanga)
                                                                                   6,555,876      1.05
  8. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad - Kenanga Growth Fund                     6,365,032      1.02

  9. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        5,463,072      0.87
          - Pledged securities account for Kueh Chung Peng (MQ0352)
                                                                                   5,116,268      0.82
 10. Lau Liong Kii
                                                                                   4,800,932      0.77
 11. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Shariah Growth Opportunities  4,400,900      0.70
            Fund (50156 TR01)
                                                                                   3,882,896      0.62
 12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Yii Ching Yii                           3,825,700      0.61

 13. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        3,726,000      0.60
          - Pledged securities account for Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien (MQ0136)
                                                                                   3,664,100      0.59
 14. Annie Lau Ting Ting
                                                                                   3,554,800      0.57
 15. Wong See Khong
                                                                                   3,204,096      0.51
 16. Betty Lau Mei Mei
                                                                                   3,001,040      0.48
 17. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Kueh Tiong Ching (E-SRK)                2,967,500      0.48

 18. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        2,880,960      0.46
          - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii (MQ0348)
                                                                                   2,788,788      0.45
 19. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Exempt an for Petroliam Nasional Berhad (KIB)                          2,773,332      0.44

 20. Tiong Su Sing                                                                 2,769,100      0.44

 21. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         2,630,000      0.42
          - Pledged securities account for Ting Yong Ding

 22. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Growth Opportunities Fund
            (50154 TR01)

 23. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii

 24. Wong Kee Hung

 25. Ng Ai Choo

 26. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged Securities Account for Ng Ai Choo (MQ0359)

 27. Wong Poh Hwa

 28. Yong Hua Tang

 29. Hou, Hsin-Min

 30. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged Securities Account for Tiong Sie Mew (MQ0172)

Note:
# excluding 6,293,400 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2022.
                                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT // 137

ANALYSIS OF WARRANT HOLDINGS

AS AT 1 APRIL 2022

WARRANT		

		

Total number of warrants issued : 315,359,400

Exercise price of the warrants : RM0.90 each

Expiry date of the warrants    : 18 June 2023

 No. of    Size of holdings                           % of holders                No. of          % of issued
holders                                                                         warrants            warrants
           less than 100 warrants                             7.49                                       0.00
    202    100 - 1,000 warrants                             19.51                       8,046            0.09
    526    1,001 - 10,000 warrants                          30.30                   270,362              1.73
    817    10,001 - 100,000 warrants                        32.84                 5,464,317             11.18
    885    100,001 - less than 5% of issued warrants                            35,247,506              48.70
    264    5% and above of issued warrants                    9.79             153,571,091              38.30
           -                                                  0.07             120,798,078            100.00
        2                                                  100.00              315,359,400
  2,696

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Warrant Holdings as at 1 April 2022)

No. Name                                                                 No. of Warrants held

                                               Direct Interest           %     Indirect Interest    %
                                                                                                  38.31
1. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                 11,960,644                3.79  120,798,078(a)
                                                                                                        -
2. Chong Shaw Fui                                     -                     -                  -  38.78
                                                                                                  38.31
3. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                                849,812            0.27  122,283,944(b)
                                                                                                   0.65
4. Tiong Chiong Soon                                  757,680            0.24  120,798,078(c)      5.31

5. Kueh Chung Peng                                    1,226,682(d)       0.39  2,034,300(e)             -
                                                                                                        -
6. Lau Liong Kii                                      6,340,276(f)       2.01  16,738,772(g)            -
                                                                                                        -
7. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng                  60,048             0.02                  -

8. Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang               99,200             0.03                  -

9. Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen                         -                     -                  -

10. Bong Wei Leong                                    -                     -                  -

Notes:

(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial holdings in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn.
      Bhd., and the interest of his spouse in the Company.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., and
      the interests of his spouse in the Company.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.

(d) 464,296 warrants are held through CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 762,386 warrants are held through RHB Nominees
      (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(e) Deemed interested by virtue of the interest of his children in the Company.

(f) 1,602,048 warrants are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 911,348 warrants are held through CGS-CIMB
      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(g) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial holdings in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd., and the interests of his spouse and children
      in the Company.
138 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD                                                    No. of warrants    %
                                                                                               69,085,038   21.91
    ANALYSIS OF WARRANT HOLDINGS (Cont’d)                                                      51,713,040   16.40
                                                                                               13,521,542
     AS AT 1 APRIL 2022                                                                        11,960,644    4.29
                                                                                                 5,000,000   3.79
       THIRTY LARGEST WARRANT ACCOUNTS HOLDERS                                                               1.59
         No. Name
          1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.                                         4,851,200        1.54
          2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.
          3. Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.                                               3,826,880        1.21
          4. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
          5. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          3,000,000        0.95

                  - Pledged securities account for Loo Hock Yeaw (E-KLG)                   2,568,134        0.81
          6. Khairul Azuan Bin Othman
          7. Lau Liong Kii                                                                 2,404,838        0.76
          8. Tan Kuan Kae
          9. Wong See Khong                                                                2,200,000        0.70
        10. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           2,121,216        0.67
                  - Pledged securities account for Yii Ching Yii
         11. Wong Wai Sun                                                                  2,034,300        0.65
        12. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           2,000,000        0.63
                  - Pledged securities account for Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien (MQ0136)
        13. Kueh Tze Siong                                                                 2,000,000        0.63
        14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           1,857,800        0.59
                  - Pledged securities account for Lau Ngie Eng
        15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          1,809,000        0.57

                  - Ukashah Bin Md Zubi                                                    1,796,000        0.57
        16. Sia Chew Hea
        17. Wong Peng Wen                                                                  1,736,000        0.55
        18. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           1,650,000        0.52
                  - Pledged securities account for Chan Kok Heng
        19. Tem Tem Song                                                                   1,602,048        0.51
        20. Goh Choun Mooi
        21. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          1,600,000        0.51

                  - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii                           1,554,600        0.49
        22. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           1,516,800        0.48
                  - Pledged securities account for Lau Pek Kii (MQ0507)
        23. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          1,500,000        0.48

                  - Pledged securities account for Ting Yong Ding                          1,480,000        0.47
        24. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           1,423,520        0.45
                  - Pledged securities account for Johnathan Wong Qin Yuan
        25. Low Kai Yee                                                                    1,386,666        0.44
        26. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                           1,359,600        0.43
                  - Pledged securities account for Low Wai Chun (MY2655)
        27. Wong Kee Hung                                                                  1,166,700        0.37
        28. Yong Hua Tang
        29. Huang Wie Poh
        30. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

                  - Pledged securities account for David Ling Howe Kim
                                                                                                         ANNUAL REPORT // 139

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Sixth Annual General Meeting of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad
(“the Company”) will be held at Conference Room, CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd., Lot 4147, Block 19, Seduan Land
District, Upper Lanang Road, 96000 Sibu, Sarawak on Thursday, 26 May 2022 at 12.00 noon to transact the following
businesses:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:		                                                                                  (Please refer
			                                                                                                      to Note 1)
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021

        together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.

2. To declare and approve the payment of a first and final single-tier dividend of 1.25 sen per          Resolution 1
        share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
                                                                                                         Resolution 2
		                                                                                                       Resolution 3
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
		
4. To approve the meeting allowance payable to the Directors for the year ending 31 December

        2022 until the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2023.			
        		
5. To re-elect the following Directors retiring pursuant to Article 122 of the Company’s
        Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:		

        (i) Chong Shaw Fui		                                                                             Resolution 4
                                                                                                         Resolution 5
        (ii) Tiong Chiong Hiiung		                                                                       Resolution 6
                                                                                                         Resolution 7
        (iii) Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang		
				                                                                                                     Resolution 8
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Crowe Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of
                                                                                                         Resolution 9
        the next annual general meeting and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
			
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:
		
7. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following ordinary resolutions pursuant to the

        Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance:		
			

        Continuation in office as Independent Non-Executive Directors		
			

        (i) “THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 6, approval be and is hereby given to
                 Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang who has served as an Independent Non-
                 Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than twelve (12)
                 years, to continue in office as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
                 until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”

				
        (ii) “THAT, approval be and is hereby given to Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen who has served
                 as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of
                 more than twelve (12) years, to continue in office as an Independent Non-Executive
                 Director of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the
                 Company.”		

(iii) “THAT, approval be and is hereby given to Bong Wei Leong who has served as an Resolution 10
        Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than
        twelve (12) years, to continue in office as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
        Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
140 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

8. To consider and if thought fit, pass the following ordinary resolution:		                             Resolution 11
			

        Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares

“THAT, subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (as may be amended, modified or re-
enacted from time to time) (“the Act”), rules, regulations and orders made pursuant to the
Act, provisions of the Company’s Constitution and the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant authorities,
where applicable, the Company be hereby unconditionally and generally authorised to
purchase and/or hold such an amount of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share
Buy-Back”) as may be determined by the Directors from time to time through Bursa Securities
upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit, necessary and expedient in
the interest of the Company provided that the total aggregate number of shares purchased
and/or held or to be purchased and/or held pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being and an
amount of funds not exceeding the Company’s total retained profits at the time of purchase
be allocated by the Company for the Proposed Share Buy-Back AND THAT such shares
purchased are to be retained as treasury shares and distributed as dividends and/or resold
on the market of Bursa Securities, or subsequently may be cancelled;

AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised and empowered to do all acts and
things and to take all such steps and to enter into and execute all commitments, transactions,
deeds, agreements, arrangements, undertakings, indemnities, transfers, assignments and/
or guarantees as they may deem fit, necessary, expedient and/or appropriate in order to
implement, finalise and give full effect to the Proposed Share Buy-Back with full powers
to assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or amendments, as
may be required or imposed by any relevant authorities and to do all such acts and things
(including executing all documents) as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best
interest of the Company;

        AND FURTHER THAT the authority hereby given will commence immediately upon the
        passing of this resolution and will continue to be in force until:
		
        (a) the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company, at which time it will

                 lapse, unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is renewed,
                 either unconditionally or subject to conditions;		
				
        (b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting after that date
                 is required by law to be held; or		
					
        (c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in general
                 meeting.		
				
        whichever occurs first, in accordance with the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa
        Securities or any other relevant authorities.”		
			
9. To transact any other business which may properly be transacted at an annual general
        meeting, due notice of which shall have been given in accordance with the Companies Act
        2016 and the Company’s Constitution.
		
                                           ANNUAL REPORT // 141

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

NOTICE OF DIVIDEND ENTITLEMENT AND PAYMENT

NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN that a first and final single-tier dividend of 1.25 sen per share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2021, if approved at the Twenty-Sixth Annual General Meeting, will be payable on
20 June 2022 to depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 2 June 2022.

A depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:

(a) shares transferred into the depositor’s securities account before 4.30 p.m. on 2 June 2022 in respect of
        transfers; and

(b) shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of Bursa
        Malaysia Securities Berhad.

By Order of the Board of Directors

Voon Jan Moi (MAICSA 7021367)

(SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008001906)

Yap Hui Yih (MAICSA 7048748)

(SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008000570)

Joint Company Secretaries

Dated: 27 April 2022
Kuching, Sarawak

NOTES:

1. This agenda item is meant for discussion only as under the provision of Section 340 of the Companies Act 2016 and
         the Company’s Constitution, the Audited Financial Statements do not require the formal approval of shareholders and
         hence, this matter will not be put forward for voting.

2. Re-election of Director

         The Nomination Committee has assessed the contribution of Chong Shaw Fui, Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Datuk
         Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang as well as the independence of Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang and
         was satisfied with their performance and recommended for their re-election. The Board endorsed the Nomination
         Committee’s recommendation that Chong Shaw Fui, Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak
         Banyang be re-appointed as Directors of the Company.

3. Continuation in office as Independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to the Malaysian Code on Corporate
         Governance

         The Nomination Committee and the Board have assessed the independence of Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak
         Banyang, Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen and Bong Wei Leong. All of them have served as Independent Non-Executive
         Directors of the Company for a cumulative term of more than twelve (12) years. The Board recommended them to
         continue to act as Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, based on the following justifications:

         (a) their experience, expertise, and networking have significant contribution to the operation and performance of
                  the Group;

         (b) they participating in deliberations at Board meetings actively by providing unbiased and independent views,
                  expressing disagreements, and stand up for their independent points of view for the best interest of the Group,
                  shareholders, employees and other stakeholders as a whole; and

         (c) they fulfil the criteria as independent directors stipulated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of
                  Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and therefore can be entrusted to discharge their duties impartially and
                  constructively.
142 // CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

4. Proposed renewal of authority for purchase of own shares by the Company

The proposed Resolution 11 if passed, will renew the authority for the Company to purchase and/or hold its own
shares up to ten per cent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company through Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting, unless revoked or
varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders at general meeting.

Please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 27 April 2022 for further information.

5. Proxy

(a) A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There
         shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.

(b) To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at Lot
         999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak not less than 48 hours
         before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

(c) If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand
         of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.

(d) A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the
         Company. Where a Member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he
         specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

(e) Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
         Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to
         the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account
         it holds.

		        An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central
          Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1)
          of SICDA.

(f) Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 shall be regarded as members
         of the Company entitled to attend this Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on
         their behalf.
            CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

            Registration no. 199601024340 (396692-T)

FORM OF PROXY                                             Number of shares held
                                                          CDS Account No.

*I/We, _________________________________________________________ (full name)_____________________________*(I.C./Passport/Company No.)

of _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

being a member of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) hereby appoint ___________________________________________

________________________________________________________________ (full name) _______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

*and/or failing *him/her, _______________________________________ (full name) ______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twenty-Sixth Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held at Conference Room, CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd., Lot 4147, Block 19, Seduan Land
District, Upper Lanang Road, 96000 Sibu, Sarawak on Thursday, 26 May 2022 at 12.00 noon and any adjournment thereof.

*My/our proxy shall vote as indicated with an “X” below. If no specific direction as to voting is given, the proxy will vote or abstain
from voting at *his/her discretion:

Resolutions                                                                                        For  Against

1. Declaration and payment of a first and final single-tier dividend for the financial year ended
       31 December 2021.

2. Payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.

3. Payment of meeting allowance to the Directors.

4. Re-election of Chong Shaw Fui as Director.

5. Re-election of Tiong Chiong Hiiung as Director.

6. Re-election of Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang as Director.

7. Re-appointment of Messrs. Crowe Malaysia PLT as auditors.

8. Retention of Datuk Temenggong Janggu anak Banyang as Independent Non-Executive Director.

9. Retention of Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen as Independent Non-Executive Director.

10. Retention of Bong Wei Leong as Independent Non-Executive Director.

11. Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.

The proportions of *my/our holdings to be presented by *my/our proxy are as follows:

				                                       No. of shares      %

First named proxy   :				

Second named proxy :

		 Total:		

In case of a vote taken by a show of hands, the first named proxy shall vote on *my/our behalf.

Dated this  day of                         2022

                                                                                      *Signature / common seal of shareholder(s)

*  Strike out whichever is not applicable

Notes:

1. A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification
     of the proxy.

2. To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
     Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

3. If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in
     writing.

4. A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company. Where a Member appoints more than
     one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

5. Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1)
     securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
     omnibus account it holds.

     An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is
     exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.

6. Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 shall be regarded as members of the Company entitled to attend this
     Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
Fold here

                                                                                                                            PLEASE
                                                                                                                        AFFIX STAMP

                                                                                                                             HERE

           The Company Secretary
           CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

           199601024340 (396692-T)

           Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli
           Bintawa Industrial Estate
           93450 Kuching
           Sarawak, Malaysia

           Fold here
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

199601024340 (396692-T)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)

Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate
93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia
Tel : 082-336 520 Fax : 082-331 479
