18 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         The Board of Directors (“Board”) of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) presents this Statement to
         provide shareholders and investors with an overview of the corporate governance practices during the financial year
         2023 in accordance with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).

         This Statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which provides the
         details on how the Company has applied each Practice as set out in the MCCG.  The CG Report is available on the
         Company’s website at www.cck.com.my.

         PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

         I. Board Responsibilities

                  The Board is always mindful of its responsibilities to the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders.  
                  The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies for the Group and ensure that long-term goals and
                  short-term objectives are met with sufficient resources in place.  

                  To ensure optimum decision-making, the positions of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are held
                  by different individuals. Their responsibilities and accountabilities are clearly defined in the Board Charter.  
                  The Board Charter also sets out authorities, roles and responsibilities of the Board, Board Committees and
                  individual Directors.  The Code of Conduct is in place to govern good business conduct and healthy corporate
                  culture so as to support long-term sustainable success.   Whistleblowing Policy is also in place to enable
                  individuals to raise concerns of improper conduct and wrong doing.  The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance
                  approach against all forms of bribery and corruption and has put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.

                  The Board is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, who provide sound
                  advice in relation to governance, regulatory requirements, policies and procedures. The Board members have
                  full and unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries.

         II. Board Composition

                  The Company is led and managed by an experienced Board comprising 9 (nine) members, the Non-Independent
                  Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Vice Chairman, the Group Managing Director, three (3) Executive
                  Directors and three (3) Independent Directors.  33% of the Board members consist of Independent Directors
                  with requisite experience, skills, qualifications and other core competencies to bring balanced and objectivity to
                  the decisions making of the Board.

                  The Board recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board and is satisfied that the current size and composition
                  of the Board is considered adequate for decision making in terms of age, gender, skills, experience, expertise
                  and perspectives.

                  The Board has in place a policy on gender diversity in the Nomination and Election Process of the Board
                  members, to ensure that women candidates are sought in its recruitment exercise.  

                  The Board, through the Nomination Committee (“NC”) conducted an annual assessment of effectiveness of the
                  Board, the Board Committees, and individual Directors during the financial year under review. All assessments
                  carried out by the NC were properly documented, summarised and reported to the Board. The Board is satisfied
                  that they had been effective in the discharge of their overall functions and duties.

         III. Remuneration

                  The Board has established a Remuneration Policy for the Directors, which is reviewed periodically. The
                  Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration of Directors annually to ensure the remuneration packages
                  remain appropriate, competitive and in alignment with the prevalent market rate so as to attract and retain
                  individuals with high caliber.  
• ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                                               19

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (Cont’d)

        During the financial year 2023, the Remuneration Committee met twice.  They reviewed and recommended to
        the Board the remuneration packages of Directors, taking into consideration commitment and responsibilities
        assumed, experience and skills required, performance of the Board members and the Group.

        The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee is made available on the Company’s website.

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit Committee

        The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) Independent Directors and one (1) Non-Executive Non-
        Independent Director.  The AC is chaired by an Independent Director.  None of the AC members was former
        audit partners who is required to observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being appointed
        to the AC.  

        The composition of the AC is reviewed by the NC annually and recommended to the Board for approval.  The
        NC ensures all AC members are financially literate, possess appropriate level of expertise and experience, and
        have strong understanding of the Group’s business.  The AC members keep abreast of relevant developments
        in accounting, auditing and governance.  The Board is satisfied with the performance of the AC and its members
        in discharged their functions for the financial year under review.

        The AC oversees the financial reporting, ensures the quarterly and annual financial statements are prepared
        in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards,
        Companies Act 2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
        Securities”) so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, results and cash flows of the Group for the
        financial year 2023.  

        The AC assesses suitability, objectivity and independence of the external auditors annually and is satisfied with
        the competency and independency of the external auditors for the financial year under review.

        Further details on the AC are disclosed in the Audit Committee Report as outlined on pages 44 to 45 of this
        Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

        The Board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control System
        (“System”) of the Group through NC. The task of scrutinizing the System is taken up by the Risk Management
        Committee (“RMC”) and AC.

        The RMC comprises all five (5) Executive Directors.  The Risk Management Department, and subsequently,
        the risk advisors of Tricor Axcelasia Sdn. Bhd. (“Tricor”) assisted RMC to ensure adequacy and effectiveness
        of the risk management practices.  The Internal Audit Department assisted the AC to ensure the internal control
        function is operated effectively and satisfactorily.

        The Board is satisfied with the performance of the RMC and AC in relation to risk management and internal
        audit function for the financial year under review. The Board is of the view that the Group has in place a sound
        System to safeguard the Group’s assets, shareholders’ investment, and the interests of customers, employees
        and other stakeholders.

        The details of the System are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 41
        to 43 of this Annual Report.
20 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (Cont’d)

          PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                                 STAKEHOLDERS

          I. Engagement with Stakeholders

                   The Board ensures that communication with the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders is
                   transparent, timely and with quality disclosures.   The Company engages with its shareholders and other
                   stakeholders through various platforms, including announcements made via Bursa Securities, disclosures
                   on the Company’s website, meeting with institutional prospective investors and questions invited in general
                   meetings.

                   The investor relations activities serve as an important communication channel with the Company’s shareholders
                   and investment community. Stakeholders are encouraged to channel their concerns to the email address at
                   sam@bcta.com.my.

          II. Conduct of General Meetings

                   Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for communicating between the Company and its
                   shareholders.  In line with the best corporate governance practice, the notice of AGM and annual report were
                   dispatched to shareholders at least 28 days before the date of the AGM in 2023.   

                   All the ten (10) Directors were present at the AGM. The Chairmen of the Board Committees together with the
                   top management and external auditors were present to address queries during the AGM.

                   The Chairman briefed the shareholders of their rights to raise questions and vote. Shareholders were also
                   briefed on the voting procedures by the poll administrator prior to the poll voting.  The vote cast and poll results
                   were validated by the independent scrutineer.  The poll results were announced to Bursa Securities on the
                   same day of the general meetings. Minutes of the AGM was uploaded on the Company’s website within 30
                   business days after the AGM.

          This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 18 April 2024.
                          • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                21

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

ABOUT THIS SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad acknowledges itself as a member of the local and global community and its joint
responsibility in working together towards sustainability. Well established within the local community, continuously
positioning ourselves as “The Food People of Choice”. We remain constantly dedicated to serving our customers and
community. To achieve that, the Group acknowledges that application of sustainability concepts and practices, which
will be detailed in this Sustainability Statement

The Group fosters transparent communication with a diverse array of stakeholders, encompassing partners, customers,
shareholders, employees, community members, and suppliers. We provide them with a deep understanding of our
sustainability initiatives, guided by a concrete framework of practical measures. This helps secures sustainable, long-
term growth that positively impacts all stakeholders.

Reporting Standards

In the preparation of this Sustainability Statement, we have been guided by the regulatory framework and guidelines
as set out below.

• Practice Note 9 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia
     Securities”);

• Sustainability Reporting Guide, 3rd Edition (“SRG”) issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities;

• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, updated on 28 April 2021 (“MCCG 2021”); and

• Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) 2021.

By incorporating these regulatory frameworks and guidelines, we demonstrate our commitment to professionalism,
accountability, and transparency in the preparation of this Sustainability Statement. 

Reporting Scope and Period

Our Sustainability statement would encompass CCK’s core segments, specifically: Retail, Poultry, Prawn and Food
Service. The scope of this statement covers the following entities that represents CCK’s Core segments:

- CCK Fresh Mart Sdn Bhd
- Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn Bhd
- Poultry Industry (S) Sdn Bhd
- Zhang Agriculture Development Sdn Bhd
- Zhang Agriculture Development (Sabah) Sdn Bhd
- C.S. Choice Food Industries Sdn Bhd
- Kin Eastern Frozen Food Sdn Bhd
- Kuok Sui Sea Products Industries (S) Sdn Bhd
- Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn Bhd
- CCK Sea Products Industries Sdn Bhd
- PT Adilmart (Foreign Company, Indonesia)
- PT Bonanza Pratama Abadi (Foreign Company, Indonesia)

This Statement provides information for the period spanning from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023, unless
specified otherwise.

Feedback

We highly appreciate and welcome feedback from our stakeholders on our Sustainability Report and the topics
covered within it. We invite comments, questions and suggestions related to this Statement, which can be sent to
sam@bcta.com.my. Your input is greatly appreciated.
22 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

        Sustainability Governance

          The Group recognizes the significance of applying sustainability in CCK operations for its long-term sustenance,
          subsequently generating perpetual value to its stakeholders. CCK’s governance system is designed to efficiently steer
          and drive sustainability across every level and aspect of CCK’s operations.
          The following outlines the functions and responsibilities assigned to each level within our governance structure:

   Board      Comprises the Chairman, Group Managing Director,
of Directors    Executive Directors, Non-Independent Directors and
                  Independent Directors

    Sustainability            Comprises the elected  members from
Steering Committee              the management team and/or Heads of
                                  Department
        (“SSC”)

Sustainability Working Group  Comprises delegates nominated
               (“SWC”)          by the management team and/or
                                  respective Heads of Department

Board of Directors

• Provides overall direction and oversight of all sustainability initiatives;
• Approves on the Sustainability Policies and Framework; and
• Drives the Group’s sustainability strategy for sustainability reporting progressively.

Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”)

• To support the sustainability accountability of the Board of Directors; and
• Operational oversight of the implementation of sustainability initiatives, ensuring adequate resources allocated to

     support implementation.

Sustainability Working Group

• Responsible for carrying out action plans in their respective subdivisions by communicating to teams and
     orchestrate a concerted effort to reach the Group's sustainability goals;

• To facilitate stakeholders’ engagement session for identification of key sustainability matters;
• To implement sustainability strategies and initiatives;
• To setup and monitor processes and controls on sustainability matters; and
• Ensure controls are maintained and updated as and when necessary.
                                                                              • ANNUAL REPORT                         23

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Policies and Procedures for Governance and Oversight

As part of our commitment to fostering strong corporate governance practices, the Group upholds policies that
provide a framework for corporate governance and serve as a means to instil a culture of business ethics amongst
our employees. The following policies exemplify our steadfast commitment to sustainability:

Board Charter         Anti-    Remuneration   Code of Ethics Whistleblowing   Directors’ Fit
                  Bribery and    Policy and                                    and Proper
                  Corruption    Procedures    and Conduct  Policy
                                                                                  Policy
                     Policy

The implementation of these policies reflects our unwavering commitment to fostering transparency, accountability
and responsible stewardship of the environment and the communities in which we operate. We seek to uphold the
highest standards of professionalism and ethical conduct.

Stakeholders Engagement

The Group often engages with our stakeholders and appreciate that our stakeholders are constitutive to CCK’s
foundations and accomplishments. Cooperation with our stakeholders and their insights have significantly contributed
to our growth and success.

With a steadfast dedication to fostering collaboration and mutual understanding, we present a comprehensive summary
of our key stakeholders, alongside their associated material sustainability matters and our ongoing engagement
efforts, as outlined in the following table:

Key Stakeholders  Areas of Interest           Engagement Methodology          Frequency

                  • Accurate disclosure       • Annual general meetings       Annually or
                  • Future direction          • Conference calls              when required
                  • Recent performance        • On-site visits
Shareholders and  • Sustainability            • Investor relations
      Investors

                  • Compensations & benefits  • Annual performance            Regularly
                  • Personal development           appraisals
Employees         • Insurance & medical
                  • Health and safety         • Occupational health and
                  • Efficiency and comfort         Safety Committee meetings

                                              • Annual team-building and
                                                   dinner

                                              • Regular communications
                                                   and meetings

                                              • Direct whistle-blowing
                                                   channels
24 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Key Stakeholders  Areas of Interest                   Engagement Methodology      Frequency
                                                                                Regularly
                  • Quality and pricing             • Annual surveys and  
Customers         • On-time deliveries                   feedback
                  • Halal compliance and food
                                                    • Regular communications
                       safety                       • Complaints channel
                                                    • Regular audits

                  • Quality and pricing             • Annual reviews and        Ongoing or
                  • On-time deliveries                   feedbacks              regularly
                  • Sustainable supply chain
Suppliers                                           • Regular communications
                       and future business          • Complaints channel
                       dealings                     • On-site visits
                  • Procurement management

                  • Good and fair governance        • Active participation in   When required
                  • Legal compliance                     industry associations

Regulators                                          • Meetings with Government
                                                         agencies

                                                    • Regular audits and
                                                         Inspections

                  • Community investment            • Donations                 Ongoing
                       involves contributing        • Fundraising
                       donations, both in monetary  • Charity events
                       and non-monetary
Community

Identifying and Addressing Material Sustainability Matters

Our Group adopts a comprehensive methodology to pinpoint vital sustainability concerns. Through the consideration
of both internal and external risks, as well as the viewpoints of stakeholders, our Group gains an understanding of
significant sustainability matters and aligns its efforts accordingly.

To ensure a robust and systematic approach, we employed a four-step (4) process in determining the list of materiality
factors for reporting. This process adhered to industry best practices and aimed to provide a clear and accurate
representation of our organisation’s sustainability priorities. The steps involved in this process are as follows:

i. Determine sustainability issues;
ii. Categorisation and prioritisation;
iii. Review the sustainability issues against the sustainability goals; and
iv. Monitoring of sustainability initiatives and KPI.
                                                                                                   • ANNUAL REPORT                      25

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

A total of thirteen (13) key material sustainability matters were mapped as outlined in the graph below.

                                                             MATERIALITY MATRIX

                          Significant                                                6        1    ECONOMY
                           Moderate
                                                                            12             7       1. Supply Chain Management
                                                                          45            11         2. Anti-Corruption

Relevant to stakeholders                                     2              9                      ENVIRONMENT

                                                             13                10                  3. Energy
                                                                      8            3               4. Emissions
                                                                                                   5. Water Management
                                                                                                   6. Effluence and Waste

                          Low                                                                      SOCIAL

                                       Insignificant  Minor  Moderate       Major       Strategic  7. Food Safety and Biosecurity
                                                                                                   8. Customer Satisfaction and
                                                      Relevant to the business
                                                                                                        Data Privacy
                                                                                                   9. Labour Practices and Standard
                                                                                                   10. Training and Development
                                                                                                   11. Occupational Health and Safety
                                                                                                   12. Diversity and Equal Opportunity
                                                                                                   13. Local Communities

Considering the Material Matters identified, CCK summarised its focus into the following:

                                       Safety First                                                Caring for Employees

                                       Workplace and operational safety,                           Welfare, Diversity, Training,
                                       PPE research and safety protocol                            Competency building and fair
                                       adherence                                                   employment practice

                                       Food Standards                                              Environmental Care

                                       Stringent standards on Food Safety,                         Mindful use of resources,
                                       Biosecurity, Supply Chain and                               management and reduction of
                                       Certifications                                              pollutants

                                       Customer Satisfaction                                       Local Community

                                       Products quality, Customer needs                            Care, listen and impactful
                                       and data security                                           contribution to the local society
26 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Risks, Opportunities and Management Approach

Through our materiality assessment process, we have identified potential sustainability risks and opportunities
that hold relevance and significance for both our business and stakeholders. This step enables us to gain a better
understanding of material sustainability matters and formulate proactive strategies and address these issues.

Material      Risks                   Opportunities            Impacted Key        Management
Topics                                                         Stakeholders         Policy and
                                                                                     Measures

  Economic    • Economic              • Growing market         • Shareholders and  • Adoption of
Performance     conditions, market      demand                   Investors           a proactive
                volatility and                                                       management
                regulatory changes    • Customisation and      • Customers           approach and
                                        specialisation         • Suppliers           alignment
                                                                                     of business
                                                                                     strategies with
                                                                                     Group’s vision,
                                                                                     mission and goals

    Anti-     • Integrity risk        • Increased              • Shareholders and  • Anti-Bribery
Corruption    • Reputation              reputation and           Investors           and corruption
                                        customers’ loyalty                           declaration by
                damage                                         • Regulators          employees on
                                                               • Employees           annual basis

                                                                                   • Reminders on
                                                                                     Anti-Bribery and
                                                                                     Anti-Corruption
                                                                                     (“ABAC”) through
                                                                                     training and
                                                                                     briefings

Supply Chain  • Supplier reliability  • Building strong        • Suppliers         • Continuously
Management    • Quality assurance       relationships and      • Customers           assessing and
              • Labour shortage         working closely        • Shareholders and    addressing supply
                                        with suppliers                               chain risks
                                                                 Investors

  Product     • Production defects    • Quality certification  • Customers         • Regularly conduct
Quality and   • Material quality        and standards          • Suppliers           risk assessments
                                                               • Shareholders and
  Services      issues                • Implement process                          • Quality control
              • Equipment and           automation for           Investors           and testing
                                        improved precision
                machinery failure       and consistency                            • Training and skill
                                                                                     development
                                                                               • ANNUAL REPORT       27

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Material      Risks                  Opportunities         Impacted Key            Management
Topics                                                     Stakeholders              Policy and
                                                                                     Measures
Customers’    • Product quality      • Offer               • Customers
Satisfaction    issues                 customisation       • Suppliers         • Implement
                                       options to                                rigorous quality
              • Pricing and cost       tailor products                           control measures
                issues                 to individual                             and standards
                                       customer needs
              • Lack of After-Sales                                            • Encourage
                support              • On-time deliveries                        customer
                                     • Quality assurance                         feedback
              • Supply chain
                disruptions                                                    • Establish an
                                                                                 efficient after-
                                                                                 sales support
                                                                                 system

Energy        • Pollution and        • Lessen              • Customers         • Implement
                environmental risk     environmental       • Suppliers           energy efficiency
                                       impact whilst       • Employees           practices
                                       decreasing overall
                                       cost                                    • Implement
                                                                                 devices to monitor
                                                                                 and control energy
                                                                                 usage in real-time

Water         • Shortage of water    • Create              • Regulators        • Continue usage of
                supply disrupts        opportunities       • Shareholders and    alternative water
                production             for water saving                          sources for daily
                processes and          technologies and      investors           usage such as
                daily use              management          • Employees           rainwater
                                       solutions

    Waste     • Non-compliance       • Selling recyclable  • Shareholders and  • Implementing
Management      with regulatory        waste generates       investors           recycling efforts
                requirements           small revenues
                                                           • Regulators        • Chicken manure
              • Pollution            • Cleaner                                   conversion to
                                       environment                               fertilizers

Emissions     • Impact of GHG        • Energy efficiency   • Shareholders and  • Implement
                emissions on           solutions             investors           emissions
                the environment,                                                 reduction
                climate and human    • Renewable energy    • Employees           measures
                health                 integration         • Suppliers
                                                                               • Set emissions
                                                                                 reduction targets

Environment   • Pollution and        • Capable of          • Shareholders and  • Conduct
Compliance      environmental risk     adhering to legal     investors           environmental
                                       regulations and                           audits on annual
                                       avoiding penalties  • Customers           basis
                                                           • Suppliers
                                     • Cleaner, safer
                                       and healthier
                                       environment
28 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Material      Risks                  Opportunities            Impacted Key       Management
Topics                                                         Stakeholders        Policy and
                                                                                   Measures
Employment    • Shortages of         • Skilled labour      • Employees
                skilled labour         development                           • Robust talent
                                                                               management
              • Employee turnover                                              strategies

                                                                             • Contingency
                                                                               plans for potential
                                                                               disruptions

Training &    • Emerging             • Continuous          • Employees       • Assess training
Education       industrial trends,     learning within                         requirements
                evolving practices     the company that                        by conducting
                and changes            is aligned with                         performance
                in regulatory          key performance                         appraisals
                requirements           indicators (KPIs)
                may render the
                existing knowledge
                of employees
                outdated

  Diversity   • Competency gap       • Engage with         • Employees       • Foster open
   & Equal    • Instances of           employees and                           communication
Opportunity                            uphold open                             with employees
                discriminatory         communication                           to comprehend
                practices and                                                  their concerns
                failure to comply                                              and prioritise their
                with basic human                                               well-being
                rights regulations
                can result in
                reputational risks

Occupational  • Safety and health    • Taking care of      • Employees       • Quarterly
   Health &     hazards                overall well-being                      meetings to
     Safety                            of employees by                         identify potential
              • Reputational           mitigating future                       hazards, develop
                damage                 accidents                               safety policies and
                                                                               procedures and
                                                                               implement safety
                                                                               improvement
                                                                               initiatives

     Local    • Possible health      • Establish a         • Community       • Implement
Communities     hazards for the        reputation as                           initiatives to
                local community        a leading and                           be involved
                could arise from       sustainable                             in community
                the operations,        industrial entity                       engagement such
                potentially leading                                            as donations,
                to the issuance of                                             charity events and
                a penalty notice                                               fundraising events
                                   • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                          29

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

ECONOMIC

Economic Presence

CCK positions itself as one of the bigger food retailers and poultry chains in East Malaysia, with its prawn and retailing
segment emerging to be its strategic core. We also have notable regional presence, particularly in the South East
Asia region.

CCK has always adopted strategies with long term economic sustenance in mind. As regulatory compliance and
environmental responsibilities goes together with economic sustenance, CCK credits its economic resilience to the
collective effort of the group in being ever adaptive in catering market demands, environment and managing efficiency.
There has been an increase in total revenue in FY2023 (RM 980.7 Million) by 10.7%, compared to FY2022 (RM 885
million). The increase in revenue is driven mainly by the retail and prawn segment.  

In the retail segment, CCK observed that the growth was driven by more matured contributions from our established
retail network, higher sales volumes from both the retail and wholesale channels, and strong demand for our in-house
manufactured processed products in Indonesia. For the prawn segment, growth was largely due to the contribution
from PT Bonanza which boosted overall segment export volumes to Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and The People’s
Republic of China.

We are actively identifying and seizing emerging business prospects, aiming to maintain our leadership in industry
trends and leverage undiscovered possibilities. By nurturing an entrepreneurial spirit and cultivating a culture of
ongoing enhancement, we are ready to adjust, evolve, and flourish. In FY2023, CCK further established 3 more CCK
Fresh Mart Retail Stores to further solidify its local presence.

Anti-Corruption

The Group enforces a stringent zero-tolerance policy against bribery and corruption, instilling the utmost ethics,
responsibility, and transparency in its business transactions.  Employee trainings on ABAC topics are conducted on
an annual basis to enhance Anti-corruption awareness among CCK employees.

There were no reported cases of bribery and corruption in FYE 2023 (FYE 2022: Nil). CCK is devoted to maintaining
this record in the oncoming years, to enforce robust controls and procedures in line with Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption (ABAC) standards. The ABAC Policy is available on the Company’s website at http://www.cck.com.my/
en/corporate-governance.
 

Supply Chain Management

• Procurement and Supplier Management

     CCK recognizes the importance of suppliers in our operations and delivery of the final products. As such, CCK
     has established close to full vertical integration for Poultry and Prawn to have better control on the consistencies
     of its value chain deliveries and to secure the economic benefits to its customers in terms of affordability.

     We developed a strong working relationship with our suppliers, jointly ensuring compliance with food standards
     and requirements, namely: Halal, myGAP, HACCP, VHM and many more. CCK exercises careful selection and
     close monitoring of product supply chain to safeguard the quality consistencies, such as prioritisation of Mesti
     certified suppliers.

• Local Procurement

     Whilst not comprising on the safety and quality of our products, we strive to strategically prioritise local supply
     chain in efforts to support the local community.
30 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

        ENVIRONMENTAL

         Energy

          Energy management is a necessary consideration in CCK, as its operations have been very dependent on energy,
          primarily its factories, warehouses and retail stores.

          In recent years, many small but progressive initiatives have been carried out such as experimenting and analysing
          on energy efficient practices, installation of energy monitoring devices, phasing out less energy efficient refrigerators
          and many more.

         Water Management

          CCK recognises water management as an integral factor in its business operations, notably its Poultry and Prawn
          farming. We applied conscious use of water and deployed rainwater collection exercise wherever practical to do so.

         Waste Management

          Waste Management correlates highly with CCK businesses, specifically, livestock and food products being extremely
          sensitive to the environment and contaminants.

          The Group observes strict adherence to internal procedures regarding waste management and compliance with
          government regulators and relevant agencies, for instance the Department of Environment (“DOE”). Waste, effluence
          and emissions are monitored and tested on a weekly basis by independent, accredited laboratories. CCK is proud
          to report that in FYE 2023, there were no penalties imposed on the Group concerning non-compliance with waste
          management regulations. This achievement demonstrates our commitment to responsible waste management
          practices and environmental compliance.

         Environment Compliance

          The Group showcases its commitment to tackling environmental impacts through compliance with global standards
          and local laws. Our dedication revolves around reducing harm to the environment while boosting operational efficiency
          at every phase of our business activities.

          The dust emission concentration test conducted in 2023 with testing methodologies conformed to the requirements
          of Department of Environment (“DOE”) showed satisfactory results below the permissible limit. Moreover, effluents
          released from CCK plants as operational by-products are carefully treated and tested for water quality prior to the
          release.

          Furthermore, we abide by the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) requirements. This step is pivotal
          in curbing the use of hazardous materials in our products, as these substances carry substantial environmental
          repercussions throughout a product’s lifecycle.

          There were no cases of non-compliance for FYE 2022 and FYE 2023. We are targeting to achieve zero reports and
          penalties for FYE 2024.

        SOCIAL

         Product Quality and Services

          CCK takes pride with retailing and supplying fresh produces that satisfy the needs of our customers. We place
          importance in quality consistencies, every aspect and stages of processing and storage in CCK tangibly showcase
          the standards of the certifications achieved.

          Biosecurity, especially in Poultry and Prawn farming has always been the quintessence of our daily operations. We
          closely monitor our environment and people in adherence to our stringent standards, constantly reminding ourselves
          of our employees and our end users’ wellbeing.
                                                             • ANNUAL REPORT                                            31

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

In FY 2023, we introduced a new methodology and technology which notably reduce human touchpoints in our poultry
processing in Kuching, furthering CCK’s biosecurity approach. Moving forward, we look to progressively expand
the knowledge to our other factories. Furthermore, CCK replaced wood materials of its fittings and fixtures such as
doors and invested in more blowers in our factory as additional efforts to reduce condensation, ultimately minimising
contamination risks.

Customers’ Satisfaction

Customer Satisfaction and Brand Loyalty are the validation of our service delivery and product excellence. To date,
CCK is proud to share that we received no substantial complaints regarding our products but instead have successfully
commanded the brand loyalty of our customers, particularly for our stringent halal compliance and reasonable pricing.

Whilst our long-standing support of local community has cemented our presence within the local community, CCK is
always evolving and adapting to the market environment and its customers, being responsive to their needs.

Due to manpower limitations in FY2023, CCK did not perform an official annual customer survey. The Group would
look to re-implement it moving forward.

Employment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity

CCK stands against discrimination, promoting diversity and offering equal opportunities to individuals without regards
to their gender and ethnicity. Being in East Malaysia, we are blessed with ethnic diversity, which has widened our
horizons to embrace differences and consider a breadth of ideas, cultural knowledge, ethnicity and people.

The following charts illustrates how diversity is managed and nurtured in the Group:

           Employees Contract               Employee Gender

Permanent 73%                   Male 63%
Contract 27%                    Female 37%

           Employee Categories            Employee Age Group

Management 4%                   Under 30    50%

Executive  9%                   Between 30-50 43%

Non-Executive 87%               Over 50     7%
32 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

          The Group observed the overall spread of employee diversity is appropriate, especially given the nature of CCK’s
          operations. In FY2023, in view of diversity, CCK added a female Board of director.

          CCK acknowledges that its operations are physically labour intensive. As observed from the employee categories,
          non-executive represents 87% of its workforce, as the bulk of CCK’s activities being in retail / supermarket, warehouse,
          factories and logistics. We observed applicants for these roles are predominantly male. However with advancement of
          technology and general increase in female participation in the workforce, CCK is proud to facilitate and support female
          employees, mostly represented in the office support / administrative roles.

          In-line with CCK’s physical labour, ages under 30 comprise half of CCK’s total workforce. For employees within
          the age group 30-50 (representing 43%), these comprise mainly CCK’s long-serving employees. CCK is proud to
          highlight that the majority 73% workforce are locals (permanent employees).   

          Although maintaining an even distribution of diversity within the Group has been challenging, we strongly believe and
          recognize in both tangible and intangible benefits of diversity that has contributed to CCK’s growth.

          We endeavour to provide fair and competitive compensations to our employees by benchmarking against industry
          salary standards and employment benefits.  In FY2023 we have revised our insurance package for our employees,
          ensuring their basic necessities are well covered and taken care of.  

        Training and Education

          Continuous learning and knowledge are the cornerstone of our employees and CCK’s progression. We strongly
          encourage continuous learning and career advancement opportunities, having a greater sense of fulfilment in
          grooming our own employees.

          In FY2023, we invested approximately MYR 143,000 for their training, clocking in total hours of 22,554 hours, of
          which majority participating were Executive level and Non-Executive/ Technical Staff. This represents our level of
          commitment and investments to growing our own employees.

        Occupational Health and Safety

          In CCK, our employee’s safety and welfare have always been essential. Hence, we instil a strong workplace safety
          culture guided by our Standard Operating Procedures, Health and Safety Policy. Our Occupational Health and Safety
          (“OSH”) Department have been instrumental in conducting various safety trainings, awareness sharing and on-site
          inspections to enforce CCK’s safety standard adherence.

          The Health and Safety Committee comprising of core operations members and OSH was established to facilitate a more
          holistic perspective and inclusiveness. Throughout FY 2023, quarterly meetings were conducted addressing various
          general safety protocols and infrastructure such as fire alarm, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) inventories,
          operating techniques and others. Some notable materialisation from the meetings were updates in earmuffs required
          specifications, new operational techniques using band saw and more targeted safety trainings arranged.

          Below are some of the initiatives in place to reduce health and safety risks:

          • Inculcate Health and Safety Policy;
          • Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”) Research and upgrade;  
          • Strict Restriction and screening of access to farms;
          • Workplace Noise Test performed; and
          • Safer Working Methodology researched and guided (i.e. Band Saw usage techniques).

          As we continuously create a safer environment, CCK recognises that safety is a collective responsibility. Throughout
          FYE 2023, OSH held approximately 3,600 hours of safety and awareness training, namely; Chemical Safety
          Awareness, Hearing Conservation and Slip and Fall prevention.
                                   • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                          33

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

Local Communities

                                                                                 • Our Contribution to Internal Communities

                                                                                       As CCK strives to deliver the best value for our
                                                                                       customers and community, we care for the people
                                                                                       that makes this possible, our people. Every year,
                                                                                       we hold an annual dinner, festive events gatherings
                                                                                       and recreational programmes as gestures of our
                                                                                       appreciation to our people and to foster a tighter
                                                                                       bond and opportunity to allow for closer teamwork
                                                                                       especially across departments.

• Our Contribution to External Communities

     With a strong presence and community support in East Malaysia, CCK strongly believes in giving back to the
     community. Every year CCK supports and sponsors various activities mostly public sector, especially schools.

     For a few years consecutively, CCK has been donating food supplies to SMK Kampung Nangka Food Bank for
     the whole of its school year.

Jualan Rahmah and Jualan Rahmah Bergerak are joint initiatives between CCK and the local government to
sell chickens at discounted prices, allowing especially lower income households to access quality products.
Throughout FY2023, we organised 15 events, all in different outlets to cater for as many locations as possible.
34 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

                                       PJR Parlimen
                                     Kota Samarahan

                                      di CCK Market
                                       Asajaya pada
                                       26 Ogos 2023

                                                                                                  Utilising mobile trucks to setup pop-up stores,
                                                                                                  Jualan Rahmah Bergerak specifically target lower
                                                                                                  income areas and less accessible areas, ensuring
                                                                                                  everybody has equal opportunities to participate
                                                                                                  and benefit from the Jualan Rahmah initiative.
                                                                                      • ANNUAL REPORT               35

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

On 20th May 2023, Kelab Kebajikan Kakitangan Jabatan Veterinar Sarawak, Kapitans of Sibu and CCK jointly
organized an Anti-Rabies project, propagating awareness on rabies, its severity and providing free vaccination to
dog owners.  

In total, CCK has recorded contribution of approximately RM223,000, benefitting an estimate of 18,200 individuals.
By CSR initiative, we have become more involved with the local community, further developing reciprocal trust
and support, enabling CCK to better align with the value and needs of the community.

Bursa Link Sustainability Performance Report

In compliance to the Bursa LINK requirement, CCK has compiled the sustainability data across the Group and
submitted via the Bursa LINK system. Table below illustrates the reporting data generated from the system.

No.                                 Indicator                            Measurement  2023
                                                                               Unit

Bursa (Anti-Corruption)

1. Bursa C1(a) Percentage of employees who have received training on anti-corruption by employee
       category

     Senior Management                                                                100

     Management                                                          Percentage   24
     Executive
                                                                                      12

     Non-Executive Technical Staff                                                    0

2. Bursa C1(b) Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related  Percentage   100

     risks

3. Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken        Number       0
36 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

No.                              Indicator                              Measurement  2023
                                                                              Unit

Bursa (Diversity)

4. Bursa C3(a) Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for each employee category

     Age Group by Employee Category

     Senior Management Under 30                                                             0

     Senior Management Between 30-50                                                        0

     Senior Management Above 50                                                      100

     Management Under 30                                                                    0

     Management Between 30-50                                                               52

     Management Above 50                                                                            48
     Executive Under 30                                                 Percentage

                                                                                                    16

     Executive Between 30-50                                                                73

     Executive Above 50                                                                     11

     Non-Executive/Technical Workers Under 30                                               56

     Non-Executive/Technical Workers Between 30-50                                          39

     Non-Executive/Technical Workers Above 50                                               5

     Gender Group by Employee Category

     Senior Management Male                                                                 92

     Senior Management Female                                                               8

     Management Male                                                                        60

     Management Female                                                  Percentage          40
     Executive Male
                                                                                            39

     Executive Female                                                                       61

     Non-Executive/Technical Workers Male                                                   65

     Non-Executive/Technical Workers Female                                                 35

     Bursa C3(b) Percentage of directors by gender and age group

5. Male                                                                              95.1

     Female                                                                                 4.9

     Under 30                                                           Percentage          2.4

     Between 30-50                                                                          2.4

     Above 50                                                                        95.1

Bursa (Community/Society)

6. Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested in the community where the target  MYR          223,064.44
       beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer

7. Bursa C2(b) Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in       Number       18,292
       communities

Bursa (Health and Safety)

8. Bursa C5(a) Number of work-related fatalities                        Number              0

9. Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident Rate (“LTIR”)                         Rate         10.28

10. Bursa C5(c) Number of employees trained on health and safety        Number       1,540
       standards
                                                                                           • ANNUAL REPORT  37

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

No.                                 Indicator                              Measurement        2023
                                                                                 Unit
                                                                                           26,155.73
Bursa (Energy management)
                                                                                                62
11. Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption                                   Megawatt
                                                                                                0
Bursa (Supply chain management)
                                                                                                77
12. Bursa C7(a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers                  Percentage          727
                                                                                             9,090
Bursa (Data privacy and security)                                                            12,662
                                                                                                27
13. Bursa C8(a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of  Number
       customer privacy and losses of customer data                                             0
                                                                                                3
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)                                                          14
                                                                                               594
     Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training by employee category                                   0

14. Senior Management                                                                        404.5

15. Management                                                             Hours
16. Executive

17. Non-executive/Technical Staff

18. Bursa C6(b) Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary  Percentage
       staff

     Bursa C6(c) Total number of employee turnover by employee category

19. Senior Management

20. Management                                                             Number
21. Executive

22. Non-executive/Technical Staff

23. Bursa C6(d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning human        Number
       rights violations

Bursa (Water)

24. Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water used                                 Megalitres

GRI Content Index

   GRI                  Disclosure Item                           Section Reference        Page
Standard
                                                      Introduction                           21
GRI 2: General Disclosure 2021                        Reporting Standards, Scope and         21
                                                      Boundary                               21
1. The organisation and its reporting practices       Reporting Standards, Scope and       4 - 10
                                                      Boundary
Bursa (Supply chain management)
                                                      Management Discussion & Analysis in
     2-1  Organisation details                        Annual Report

     2-2  Entities included in the organisation’s

          sustainability reporting

     2-3  Reporting period, frequency and contact

          point

2. Activities and workers

     2-6  Activities, value chain and other business

          relationship
38 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

   GRI                    Disclosure Item                     Section Reference          Page
Standard  Employees                                                                     31 - 32
                                                  Social - Employment, Diversity and
    2-7                                           Equal Opportunity                     33 - 35

                                                  Local Communities – Our Contribution     22
                                                  to Internal Communities                  18
                                                                                           18
3. Governance                                                                              22
                                                                                           18
2-9       Governance structure and composition Sustainability Governance                   18
                                                                                           22
2-10      Nomination and selection of highest     Corporate Governance Overview            44
          governance body                         Statement in Annual Report               29
                                                                                           18
2-11      Chair of the highest governance body    Corporate Governance Overview            18
                                                  Statement in Annual Report               18
                                                                                           18
2-12      Role of the highest governance body in  Sustainability Governance
          overseeing the management of impacts                                             21
                                                  Corporate Governance Overview            23
                                                  Statement in Annual Report               23
                                                                                           29
2-13      Delegation of responsibility for managing Corporate Governance Overview          29
                                                                                        18 -19
          impacts                                 Statement in Annual Report

2-14      Role of the highest governance body in  Sustainability Governance
          sustainability reporting

2-15      Conflict of interest                    Corporate Governance Overview
                                                  Statement in Annual Report

2-16      Communication of critical concerns      Anti-Corruption

2-17      Collective knowledge of the highest     Corporate Governance Overview
          governance body                         Statement in Annual Report

2-18      Evaluation of the performance of the    Corporate Governance Overview
          highest governance body                 Statement in Annual Report

2-19      Remuneration policies                   Corporate Governance Overview
                                                  Statement in Annual Report

2-20      Process to determine remuneration       Corporate Governance Overview
                                                  Statement in Annual Report

4. Strategy, policies and practices

2-22      Statement on sustainable development    Sustainability Statement
          strategy

2-23      Policy commitments                      Policy and Procedures for Excellent
                                                  Governance

2-24      Embedding policy commitments            Policy and Procedures for Excellent
                                                  Governance

2-25      Processes to remediate negative impacts Anti-Corruption

2-26      Mechanism for seeking advice and raising Anti-Corruption
          concerns

2-27      Compliance with laws and regulations    Corporate Governance Overview
                                                  Statement in Annual Report
                                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT  39

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

   GRI                Disclosure Item               Section Reference                        Page
Standard
                                                                                            23 - 24
5. Stakeholder engagement                                                                   24 - 25
                                                                                            24 -25
2-29      Approach to stakeholder engagement        Stakeholder Engagement                  24 -25

GRI 3: Material Topics 2021                                                                    29

3-1       Process to determine material topics      Identifying and Addressing Materiality     29
                                                    Matters
                                                                                               29
3-2       List of material topics                   Identifying and Addressing Materiality     29
                                                    Matters                                    29

3-3       Management of material topics             Identifying and Addressing Materiality     30
                                                    Matters                                    30
                                                                                               30
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016                                                             30
                                                                                               30
201-1     Direct economic value generated and       Economic Presence                          30
          distributed                                                                          30
                                                                                            31 - 32
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016

204-1     Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Management – Local
                                                                     Procurement

GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016

205-1     Operations assessed for risks related to  Anti-Corruption
          corruption

205-2     Communication and training about anti-    Anti-Corruption
          corruption policies and procedures

205-3     Confirmed incidents of corruption and     Anti-Corruption
          actions taken

GRI 302: Energy 2016

302-1     Energy consumption within the             Environment - Energy
          organisation

302-4 Reduction of energy consumption               Environment - Energy

GRI 303: Water and Effluent 2016

303-1     Interactions with water as shared         Environment – Water Management
          resource

303-5 Water consumption                             Environment – Water Management

GRI 306: Waste 2020

306-1     Waste generation and significant waste- Environment – Waste Management
          related impacts

306-2     Management of significant waste-related Environment – Waste Management
          impacts

306-3 Waste generated                               Environment – Waste Management

GRI 401: Employment

401-2     Benefits provided to full-time employees Social – Employment, Diversity and
          that are not provided to temporary or part- Equal Opportunity
          time employees
40 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (Cont’d)

   GRI    Disclosure Item                                      Section Reference        Page
Standard
                                                   Social – Occupational Health and       32
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018       Safety                                 32
                                                   Social – Occupational Health and       32
403-1     Occupational health and safety           Safety                                 32
          management system                        Social – Occupational Health and       32
                                                   Safety                                 32
403-2     Hazard identification, risk assessment,                                         32
          and incident investigation               Social – Occupational Health and
                                                   Safety                                 32
403-4     Worker participation, consultation, and  Social – Occupational Health and       32
          communication on occupational health     Safety
          and safety                               Social – Occupational Health and    31 - 32
                                                   Safety
403-5     Worker training on occupational health   Social – Occupational Health and
          and safety                               Safety

403-8     Workers covered by an occupational       Social – Training and Education
          health and safety management system
                                                   Social – Training and Education
403-9 Work-related injuries
                                                   Social – Employment, Diversity and
403-10 Work-related ill health                     Equal Opportunity

GRI 404: Training and Education 2016

404-1     Average hours of training per year per
          employee

404-2     Programs for upgrading employee skills
          and transition assistance programs

GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016

405-1     Diversity of governance bodies and
          employees
• ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                                          41

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Listing Requirements”), the Statement on Risk Management and Internal control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed
Issuers (“Guidelines”) and the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance.

A sound risk management framework and internal control system (“System”) is embedded into the culture of the
Group, which is responsive to changes in business, market, environment and economy.  The System is to safeguard
the Group’s assets and shareholders’ investments as well as the interests of customers, employees and other
stakeholders.

BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES

The Board is committed to maintain a sound System and affirms its overall responsibility for the System by continuously
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the System.  The task of scrutinising the System is taken up by the Board
Committees, i.e. Audit Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).

The System covers strategy, operations, finance, information technology, regulatory compliance, sustainability and
external environment.  The System is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks, and achieve the Group’s
strategies and business objectives within the risk tolerance level determined by the Board.  The System provides
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against any material misstatement, loss or fraud.

The Board has received assurance from the Group Managing Director that the System of the Group is operating
adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on the System adopted by the Group.  The System does not
cover associated company as the management is not under the control of the Board.  However, the Group’s interest
is served through representation on the board of the associated company.

The Board has reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the System through the AC and RMC.  Risk Reports
and Internal Audit Reports were reviewed by the RMC and AC respectively in the quarterly meetings held during the
financial year 2023.  Necessary actions have been and are being taken to remedy significant weaknesses identified
from the review.

Risk-related matters and internal control issues which warranted the attention of the Board were recommended by the
RMC and AC to the Board for its deliberation and approval. Decisions made within the RMC’s and AC’s purview were
escalated to the Board for its notation.

RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

The principal responsibilities of the RMC is to establish and monitor the Group’s risk management framework, develop
process to identify, assess, monitor, manage and report on all key business risks, and to provide guidance and
strategic direction to the business units on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system in order to
achieve the Group’s objectives and strategies within the acceptable risk appetite.  

The RMC, with assistance of Risk Management Department (“RMD”), ensured effective and consistent adoption
of risk management practices in the Group. The staff of RMD met the risk owners of the major divisional units and
business units, to identify and evaluate risks concerned so as to establish risk profile of the Group. Tricor Axcelasia
Sdn. Bhd. (“Tricor”) took over the role of RMD in June 2023, providing professional service and advice to RMC directly.
RMD was dismissed since then.

A series of risk discussion sessions were carried out with the management by risk advisors of Tricor to identify
risks faced by the Group.  All identified and updated risks were individually assessed.  The level of risk tolerance
was expressed in the risk rating matrix, which was scaled in accordance to the likelihood of occurrence of the risk
and the magnitude of impact.  Once the risk level was identified within respective sectors of Retail, Poultry, Prawn,
Food Services, and Support Functions, risk owners carried out mitigating actions within appropriate timeframe in
accordance to the proposed action plans to manage the risks. Risk owners updated their existing risk profile on an on-
going basis with regard to the progress, emerging risk, new strategies and the outcome. Significant risks of the Group
for the financial year under review includes supply of chicken feed and chicken, congestion of poultry processing
factory, and succession planning for heads of departments.
42 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

        (Cont’d)

          The RMC reviewed and deliberated the risk profile of the Group in the RMC meetings held three (3) times during
          the financial year 2023.  The RMC ensured that the overall risks were adequately identified and managed within
          an acceptable risk appetite. Critical risks, together with its impact, mitigating actions and improved results, were
          presented to the Board.

          INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESS

          Audit

          The AC, with assistance of internal auditors, is tasked by the Board with duty of reviewing and appraising the
          effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Group in accordance with the objectives of the Group.

          In carrying out its responsibilities, the AC relies significantly on the support of the Internal Audit Department (“IAD”).
          Based on an annual audit plan approved by the AC, the internal auditors performed their duties on the major business
          units in accordance to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The internal
          auditors uphold the principles of acting in independency, integrity, objectivity and confidentiality. The AC also reviewed
          and deliberated any matters relating to internal control which were highlighted by external auditors.

          Meetings and discussions of internal auditors were held with Heads of Departments and employees concerned, to
          identify, discuss and resolve key operational issues.   Where any significant weaknesses had been identified, the
          internal auditors together with the management recommended corrective measures to improve the internal control
          accordingly. The audit issues, findings and corrective measures were compiled into audit reports for deliberation in
          the AC meetings held quarterly.  Follow up audits were also taken to assess the status of implementation thereof, and
          significant unresolved audit issues were escalated to the Board for deliberation.   

          Any cases of fraud, whether actual or suspected, are required to be reported to the Chairperson of the AC and
          the Group Managing Director immediately upon discovered. Any significant incident concerning security of cash,
          information and record keeping, as well as regulatory compliance are also required to be informed to the Head of IAD.

          The AC reviewed audit plans and reports of the external auditors annually. The AC also assess the performance,
          suitability, objectivity and independence of external auditors before recommended the external auditors for
          re-appointment.

          Authority and Responsibilities

          The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees with clearly defined authorities and responsibilities in
          respective committees’ Terms of Reference.

          Business performance of the Group is reviewed in quarterly meetings of the Board.  Quarterly results of the Group are
          compared against budgeted figures and results of corresponding period last year.  

          Policies and Procedures

          The Group has put in place a set of standard operating procedures named Corporate Management System (CMS), to
          ensure the effectiveness of internal control, to mitigate risk, and to achieve the performance and targets of the Group.
          These procedures are continuously reviewed, monitored, updated and improved by the steering committee.

          Insurance

          Insurance coverage and physical safeguards on major assets are in place to ensure that the assets of the Group are
          adequately covered against any mishap that could result in material loss to the Group.
• ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                                         43

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

(Cont’d)

REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT

The Board ensures that this Statement has been reviewed by external auditors pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the
Listing Requirements. The external auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention which
causes them to believe that the Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines,
nor is the Statement factually inaccurate.

CONCLUSION

The Board is satisfied that the System is efficient and adequate to meet the Group’s strategies and objectives for the
financial year under review and up to the date of approval of this Statement. The Board will continue to ensure the
effectiveness and adequacy of the System.   

This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 18 April 2024.
44 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company is pleased to present the Audit Committee Report which provides
insights into the manner in which the Audit Committee (“AC”) discharged its functions for the Group during the financial
year ended 2023.

COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE

The AC consists of the following four (4) members. Five (5) AC meetings were held during the financial year. Their
attendance at the AC meetings are as follows:

AC Members                                Attendance
                                                2/2
Chairperson:		
Wong Ping Eng                                   5/5
                                                5/5
(Independent Director)                          2/2
[Appointed on 1 June 2023]

Members:
Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk

(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng

(Independent Director)

Dato Sim Kheng Boon

(Independent Director)
[Appointed on 1 June 2023]

FUNCTION

The Board is satisfied that the AC and its members have discharged their functions, duties and responsibilities
in accordance with the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC. The term of office and performance of AC and its
members are reviewed by the Nomination Committee annually. Summary of the TOR of AC are available at the
Company’s website at www.cck.com.my.

The Heads of Finance and Internal Audit together with Company Secretaries attended the meetings held during the
year. External auditors also attended meetings upon invitation of the AC.

All proceedings and deliberations in terms of the issues discussed, and recommendations and decisions made at the
AC meetings were recorded in the minutes by the Company Secretaries and confirmed by the AC. Significant matters
discussed at each meeting were reported to the Board by the AC Chairperson.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

The AC carried out the following activities during the financial year:

(a) reviewed and deliberated the quarterly and annual audited financial statements to ensure that the financial
        reporting and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the financial positions of the Group and in compliance
        with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Act
        2016 and Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, prior to submission to the
        Board for consideration and approval;

(b) reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation presented by management that may
        arise within the Group, including any transactions, procedures or course of conduct that raises questions of
        management integrity as well as the adequacy of the disclosure in the quarterly and annual audited financial
        statement, prior to the Board’s consideration and approval;

(c) deliberated establishment of policy and procedures presented by management to manage conflict of interest
        and potential conflict of interest situation;
                                 • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                          45

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (Cont’d)

(d) reviewed and approved annual audit plans of the internal auditors and external auditors to ensure adequacy of
        resources, competencies and coverage of areas to be audited;

(e) reviewed and deliberated audit reports of the internal auditors and external auditors, which included the major
        findings, recommendations with respect to the system and control weaknesses, and management’s responses
        thereto;

(f) met twice with the external auditors and once with the internal auditors without the presence of the other
        directors and employees of the Group to review key issues;

(g) assessed the performance, suitability, objectivity and independence of external auditors, and recommended
        re-appointment of external auditors and the proposed fees for the Board’s approval;

(h) reviewed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit function;
(i) reviewed and deliberated the comparison of actual against budgeted results on quarterly basis;
(j) reviewed and deliberated trade receivables and inter-company debts;
(k) reviewed the Audit Committee Report and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control prior to the

        Board’s consideration and approval; and
(l) reviewed the performance of the Group and made recommendation for appropriate corrective measures to the

        Board.

INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

The Group’s Internal Audit Function was carried out by an independent in-house Internal Audit Department (“IAD”), its
principal responsibility was to assist the AC in discharging its duties and responsibilities by undertaking independent,
objective, regular and systematic review of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that
such system continues to operate effectively and satisfactorily within the Group. The IAD reported directly to the AC.

The IAD was led by Ms. Hii Yong Sing, who was appointed in August 2021. She holds a Bachelor of Accountancy
and Finance (Hons) with vast experience in internal auditing. She was assisted by eleven (11) staff, nine (9) of whom
possess tertiary qualifications in the field of Business Administration, Accountancy, Management (Policy and Social
Environmental) and Science (Chemistry); two (2) staff have secondary qualifications of SPM with experiences in
internal auditing.

All of them are free from any relationships with the Group, thus avoiding any conflict of interest, which could impair
their objectivity and independence.

The IAD carried out the activities based on the risk-based approach annual audit plan which was approved by the AC.
Ad-hoc audits and special investigative assignment would be performed when required. The audit conducted during
the year covered sectors of prawn, food service and retail outlets.  

The internal audit reports were presented to the AC quarterly, incorporating findings, recommendations to rectify
any weaknesses and to enhance controls, together with corrective measures to be taken within an agreed timeline.  
Follow-up audits on significant engagements and relevant recommendations were conducted to ensure that corrective
and preventive measures have been implemented accordingly with the intention to solve any underlying problems
and to improve the processes and performance.

The total costs incurred by IAD in discharging its functions and responsibilities in 2023 amounted to RM541,666
(compared to RM440,802 in 2022).

Further details of the Company’s internal control functions are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of this Annual Report.

This Report is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 18 April 2024.
46 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT

        FOR PREPARING THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 (“CA”) to prepare the financial statements for each financial
          year which have been made out in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, the International
          Financial Reporting Standards, the requirements of the CA and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
          Malaysia Securities Berhad.

          The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position
          of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023 and of their financial performance and cash flows of the
          Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.  

          In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensured that the Management has:
          • adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
          • made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
          • prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.

          The Directors are responsible to ensure that the Group and the Company maintain accounting records which disclose
          the financial position of the Group and of the Company with reasonable accuracy, enabling them to ensure that the
          financial statements comply with the CA.  

          The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
          the Group and of the Company, and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

          This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 18 April 2024.
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

48		 Directors’ Report
53 		 Statement by Directors
53 		 Statutory Declaration
54 		 Independent Auditors’ Report
58 		 Statements of Financial Position
60		 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
62 		 Statements of Changes in Equity
65 		 Statements of Cash Flows
68		 Notes to the Financial Statements
48 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management services.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have been no
significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

RESULTS                                       The Group     The Company
                                                   RM              RM
			
Profit after taxation for the financial year    83,355,289      15,228,352

Attributable to:-			

Owners of the Company                         83,266,067    15,228,352

Non-controlling interests                     89,222        -

                                              83,355,289    15,228,352

DIVIDENDS

The Company paid a first and final single-tier dividend of 3.50 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM21,747,201
in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 20 June 2023. The dividend was approved by the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 29 May 2023.

At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a first and final single-tier dividend of 4.25 sen per ordinary share in
respect of the current financial year will be proposed for shareholders' approval. The financial statements for the
current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be
accounted for as a liability in the financial year ending 31 December 2024.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed
in the financial statements.

ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES

During the financial year:-

(a) the Company increased its issued and paid-up share capital from RM158,968,786 to RM158,968,930 by way
        of:-

        (i) issuance of 160 new ordinary shares from the exercise of warrants 2018/2023 at the exercise price of
                 RM0.90 per warrant as disclosed in Note 19 to the financial statements which amounted to RM144.

        The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.

(b) there were no issues of debentures by the Company.
                            • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                 49

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

TREASURY SHARES

As at 31 December 2023, the Company held as treasury shares a total of 9,370,200 of its issued and fully paid-up
ordinary shares. The treasury shares are held at a carrying amount of RM5,452,652. The details of the treasury
shares are disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

During the financial year, no options were granted by the Company to any person to take up any unissued shares in
the Company.

BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance
for impairment losses on receivables and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate allowance had been made for impairment losses on receivables.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that would require the further writing off of
bad debts, or the additional allowance for impairment losses on receivables in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company.

CURRENT ASSETS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable steps
to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business, including their
value as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company, have been written down to an amount
which they might be expected so to realise.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed
to the current assets in the financial statements misleading.

VALUATION METHODS

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render adherence
to the existing methods of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.

CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES

At the date of this report, there does not exist:-

(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year
        which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.

No contingent or other liability of the Group and of the Company has become enforceable or is likely to become
enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors,
will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations when they fall due.
50 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

         CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES

          At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
          the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial
          statements misleading.
           

         ITEMS OF AN UNUSUAL NATURE

          The results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not, in the opinion of the
          directors, substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

          There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
          transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the directors, to affect substantially the
          results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

         DIRECTORS

          The names of directors who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-

          Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
          Tiong Chiong Hiiung
          Chong Shaw Fui
          Tiong Chiong Soon
          Lau Liong Kii
          Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng
          Kueh Chung Peng
          Datuk Temenggong Janggu Anak Banyang (resigned on 31 May 2023)
          Datu Haji Putit Bin Matzen (retired on 29 May 2023)
          Bong Wei Leong (resigned on 31 May 2023)
          Dato Sim Kheng Boon (Appointed on 1 June 2023)
          Wong Ping Eng (Appointed on 1 June 2023)

          The names of directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date of this
          report, not including those directors mentioned above, are as follows:-

          Chai Min Diang (resigned on 13 March 2024)
          Chong Min Fui
          Chong Pio
          Chong Su Khiun
          Ethan Tiong Ing Hung
          Joseph Tang Chiod Sui
          Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien
          Lau Hieng Wuong
          Kueh Tiong Ching
          Lau Pek Kii
          Ung Yiik Hieng
          Wong Hua Tiing
          Tiong Chiong Kuong
          Tiong Chiong Hong
          Wong Hua King
          Nelly
                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT                                   51

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of directors’ shareholdings, the interests of directors holding office at the end of the financial
year in shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year are as follows:-

                                                Number of Ordinary Sharess

                                   At 			                                   At

                                   1.1.2023     Bought     Sold             31.12.2023

The Company                        			

				

Direct Interests				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk        34,671,288           -  (3,800,000) 30,871,288

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                1,699,624            -        -          1,699,624

Tiong Chiong Soon                  1,515,360            -        -          1,515,360

Lau Liong Kii                      14,740,752   928,000          -          15,668,752

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng  521,428              -        -          521,428

Kueh Chung Peng                    11,420,664   560,000    (2,500,000)      9,480,664

				

Indirect Interests 				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk        244,185,380          -        - 244,185,380

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                244,567,888          -        - 244,567,888

Chong Shaw Fui                     33,601,272           -        -          33,601,272

Kueh Chung Peng                    4,307,400    3,100,000        -          7,407,400

Tiong Chiong Soon                  241,596,156          -        - 241,596,156

Lau Liong Kii                      41,301,852   356,500    (900,000) 40,758,352

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng  3,311,988            -        -          3,311,988

By virtue of their shareholdings in the Company, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Tiong Chiong
Soon are deemed to have interests in shares in its related corporations during the financial year to the extent of the
Company’s interests, in accordance with Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

The other directors holding office at the end of the financial year had no interest in shares of the Company or its
related corporations during the financial year.

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than directors’ remuneration as disclosed in the “Directors’ Remuneration” of this report) by reason of a contract made
by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a
company in which the director has a substantial financial interest except for any benefits which may be deemed to
arise from transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain directors have
substantial financial interests as disclosed in Note 37(b) to the financial statements.

Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Group or the Company a party to any arrangements whose
object is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
52 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The details of the directors’ remuneration paid or payable to the directors of the Company during the financial year
are as follows:-

                                                                              The Group         The Company
                                                                                   RM                  RM

Fees                                                                            225,840         357,600
Salaries, bonuses and other benefits                                          3,479,888          90,000
Defined contribution benefits                                                                            -
                                                                                298,547

                                                                              4,004,275         447,600

			

INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COST

During the financial year, there is no indemnity given to or professional indemnity insurance effected for directors,
officers or auditors of the Company.

SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

AUDITORS

The auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

The details of the auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year were RM599,742
and RM89,000 respectively.

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 18 April 2024.

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
Director

Tiong Chiong Hiiung
Director
                             • ANNUAL REPORT                                                                                                      53

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk and Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being two of the directors of CCK Consolidated Holdings
Berhad, state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 58 to 131 are drawn up
in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2023 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year ended on that date.

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 18 April 2024.

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk  Tiong Chiong Hiiung
Director                     Director

STATUTORY DECLARATION

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being the director primarily responsible for the financial management of CCK Consolidated
Holdings Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 58 to 131 are,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovementioned
Tiong Chiong Hiiung, NRIC Number: 670208-13-6277
at Sibu
in the State of Sarawak
on this 18 April 2024.

                                                                                                                             Tiong Chiong Hiiung
                                                                                                                             Director

Before me
54 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, comprising material accounting
policy information and other explanatory information, as set out on pages 58 to 131.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial
year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards
Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence
Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws
and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.

Revenue recognition                                    How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 27 in the financial statements
                                                       Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                       (a) Inquiring, inspecting, observing and documenting
The retail segment contributed 76% of the Group’s           cash sales cycle to obtain an understanding of the
revenue as of the financial year ended 31 December          Group’s design and implementation of policies
2023. Due to the voluminous cash sales transactions         and procedures of the cycle.
arising at multiple sales points, revenue recognition
is identified as a key audit matter, with respect to   (b) Performing walkthrough tests, test of controls
misappropriation of cash.                                   on cash sales cycle with samples documented
                                                            on identified key controls and evaluation of the
                                                            control processes for cash sales transactions
                                                            cycle especially the cash receipts.

                                                       (c) Examining and reviewing year end cut-off
                                                            to ensure revenue are accounted for in the
                                                            appropriate period.
                                                           • ANNUAL REPORT                                               55

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

Valuation of biological assets                             How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 13 in the financial statements
                                                           Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                           (a) Evaluating the valuation methodology and the
As at 31 December 2023, the Group’s biological assets           appropriateness of key assumptions used by
carried a fair value in the aggregate of RM21.4 million.        management.

Management uses the income approach to estimate            (b) Evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures in the
the fair value of biological assets by discounting the          financial statements, including disclosures of key
net cash flows expected to be generated from the                assumptions and judgements.
sale of these agricultural produce. This approach uses
several key assumptions, including assumptions about
feed costs, projected selling prices and mortality rates.

Due to the degree of management judgement involved
in estimating the fair values of biological assets, we
considered this to be an area of audit focus.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or
the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
56 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

        TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

         REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

          Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

          Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
          Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
          report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
          audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
          Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
          considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
          decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

          As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
          Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-

          • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
                   Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
                   obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
                   detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
                   involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

          • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
                   appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
                   Group’s and the Company’s internal control.

          • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
                   related disclosures made by the directors.

          • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
                   the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
                   significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
                   material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures
                   in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
                   our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
                   However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
                   concern.

          • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
                   Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
                   represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

          • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
                   activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
                   for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
                   opinion.

          We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
          significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

          We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
          independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
          bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats of safeguards applied.

          From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
          audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
          key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
          about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
          in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
          interest benefits of such communication.
                                         • ANNUAL REPORT                                                             57

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (Cont’d)

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which
we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for
the content of this report.

Crowe Malaysia PLT                               Sim Aik Chiam
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA) & AF 1018        03123/02/2025 J
Chartered Accountants                    Chartered Accountant

Sibu, Sarawak
Date: 18 April 2024
58 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                 The Group                         The Company

			                                          2023                       2022       2023        2022

		                                     Note  RM                         RM         RM          RM

								

ASSETS						

		

NON-CURRENT ASSETS						

		

Investments in subsidiaries            5           -                          -    86,903,839  81,003,839

Investment in an associate             6     33,423,527   28,644,487               19,930,171  19,930,171

Property, plant and equipment          7     216,209,565 200,835,836               8,216,198   8,375,195

Investment properties                  8     9,508,407    10,746,955                     -           -

Intangible assets                      9     3,657,571                  3,754,512        -           -

Goodwill                               10    380,224                    380,224          -           -

Deferred tax assets                    11    1,778,698                  2,551,996        -           -

			

			                                          264,957,992 246,914,010 115,050,208 109,309,205

CURRENT ASSETS						

		

Inventories                            12    92,570,021 106,054,584                      -           -

Biological assets                      13    21,355,163   16,652,296                     -           -

Trade receivables                      14    48,939,944   48,727,960                     -           -

Short-term investment                  15    5,781,971                  8,044,790  5,781,971   8,044,790

Other receivables, deposits and 						

prepayments                            16    17,657,821   13,384,272               908,285     724,987

Amount owing by subsidiaries           17          -                          -    86,717,532  93,100,445

Current tax assets		                         397,952                    2,513,433        -           -

Deposits with licensed banks           18    20,077,918                 6,457,419        -           -

Cash and bank balances		                     104,507,295  56,595,113               831,582     626,326

							

			                                          311,288,085 258,429,867               94,239,370 102,496,548

			

TOTAL ASSETS		                               576,246,077 505,343,877 209,289,578 211,805,753

			

							

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						

		

EQUITY						

		

Share capital                          19    158,968,930 158,968,786 158,968,930 158,968,786

Treasury shares                        20    (5,452,652) (5,452,652) (5,452,652) (5,452,652)

Reserves                               21    277,459,853 208,254,641               42,579,312  49,098,161

			

Equity attributable to owners of						

the Company		                                430,976,131 361,770,775 196,095,590 202,614,295

Non-controlling interests		                  583,347                    479,949          -           -

			

TOTAL EQUITY		                               431,559,478 362,250,724 196,095,590 202,614,295

			

							

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                • ANNUAL REPORT  59

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Cont’d)

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                           The Group                                The Company

			                                    2023                             2022        2023        2022

		                               Note  RM                               RM          RM          RM

								

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES						

		

Bank borrowings                  22    5,450,845                        6,285,530         -           -

Lease liabilities                23    13,557,927                       13,510,311        -           -

Deferred tax liabilities         11    9,600,885                        8,085,195   1,342,492   1,475,141

			

			                                    28,609,657  27,881,036                       1,342,492   1,475,141

			

							

CURRENT LIABILITIES						

		

Trade payables                   24    34,854,444  41,267,307                             -           -

Other payables, deposits and 						

accruals                         25    23,006,150  19,592,204                       747,049     538,635

Amount owing to subsidiaries     17          -                                -     11,104,447  7,177,682

Bank borrowings:-                22				

- bank overdrafts		                    4,258,686                        6,016,378         -           -

- other borrowings		                   40,040,625  36,085,028                             -           -

Lease liabilities                23    3,851,827                        3,407,367         -           -

Provision for employee benefits  26    1,592,964                        1,226,648         -           -

Current tax liabilities		              8,472,246                        7,617,185         -           -

							

			                                    116,076,942 115,212,117                      11,851,496  7,716,317

			

TOTAL LIABILITIES		                    144,686,599 143,093,153                      13,193,988  9,191,458

			

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		         576,246,077 505,343,877 209,289,578 211,805,753

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
60 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                 The Group                           The Company

			                                          2023                       2022         2023        2022

		                                     Note  RM                         RM           RM          RM

								

REVENUE                                27    980,749,590 885,745,261                 17,217,000  35,464,164

							

COST OF SALES		                              (782,689,284) (724,745,235)                   -           -

				

GROSS PROFIT		                               198,060,306 161,000,026                 17,217,000  35,464,164

							

OTHER INCOME		                               30,528,395   32,737,937                 907,275     622,986

							

SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION						

EXPENSES		                                   (23,905,025) (22,763,631)                     -           -

							

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES		                    (30,853,595) (29,664,887) (1,959,031) (1,779,068)

							

OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES		                   (68,910,469) (62,016,628)               (100,000) (6,444,262)

							

FINANCE COSTS		                              (2,655,069) (2,445,369)                       -     (195,051)

							

NET IMPAIRMENT GAINS/(LOSSES)						

ON FINANCIAL ASSETS                    28    397,417                    2,622        (969,541)         -

							

SHARE OF PROFITS OF

AN EQUITY ACCOUNTED						

ASSOCIATE		                                  4,779,040                  4,521,456          -           -

				

PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                 29    107,441,000  81,371,526                 15,095,703  27,668,769

							

INCOME TAX EXPENSE                     30    (24,085,711) (18,246,205)               132,649     (89,968)

				

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION		                      83,355,289   63,125,321                 15,228,352  27,578,801

							

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE 						

INCOME                                 31					

		

Items that Will Not be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Remeasurement of defined						

		 benefits plan		                           (19,127)                   39,094             -           -

							

Items that Will be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Foreign currency translation 						

		 differences		                             7,719,649                  (4,722,126)        -           -

							

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE						

INCOME		                                     7,700,522                  (4,683,032)        -           -

				

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME						

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR		                     91,055,811   58,442,289                 15,228,352  27,578,801

				

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT  61

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (Cont’d)

                                      The Group                                 The Company

			                               2023                                  2022    2023        2022

		                          Note  RM                                    RM      RM          RM

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION						

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           83,266,067  63,106,230                        15,228,352  27,578,801

Non-controlling interests		       89,222                                19,091        -           -

				

				                              83,355,289  63,125,321                        15,228,352  27,578,801

				

							

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME						

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           91,041,635  58,439,422                        15,228,352  27,578,801

Non-controlling interests		       14,176                                2,867         -           -

				

				                              91,055,811  58,442,289                        15,228,352  27,578,801

				

							

EARNINGS PER SHARE (SEN):-  32					

Basic		                           13.35                                 10.12 			

Diluted		                         13.35                                 10.12

				                                                                            			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY                                                                                                                         62 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

					                                                                                Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                Exchange 		               to Owners      Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury     Translation  Retained     of the         Controlling   Total

			                                             Capital                 Shares       Reserve      Profits      Company        Interests     Equity

			                                Note         RM                      RM           RM           RM           RM             RM            RM

The Group									

									

Balance at 1.1.2022		                           158,968,786 (2,432,449) (3,433,097) 161,053,633 314,156,873                   92,114 314,248,987

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -           - 63,106,230 63,106,230         19,091 63,125,321

Other comprehensive income for the									

financial year:-                   31					

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -           -   39,094       39,094                    -  39,094

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        - (4,705,902)             - (4,705,902)     (16,224) (4,722,126)

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        - (4,705,902) 63,145,324 58,439,422         2,867 58,442,289

									

Contributions by and distribution to									

owners of the Company:-								

- Purchase of treasury shares		                          - (3,020,203)                        -             - (3,020,203)                - (3,020,203)

- Dividends:-								

- by the Company                   33                    -                        -           - (7,805,317) (7,805,317)                  - (7,805,317)

Changes in ownership interests in

subsidiaries:-								

- Acquisition of a subsidiary		                          -                        -           -             -           -     384,968       384,968

Total transactions with owners		                               -        (3,020,203)               - (7,805,317) (10,825,520)  384,968 (10,440,552)
					                                           158,968,786             (5,452,652)  (8,138,999) 216,393,640 361,770,775      479,949 362,250,724
Balance at 31.12.2022		
					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

					                                                                                   Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                   Exchange 		               to Owners    Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury        Translation  Retained     of the       Controlling   Total

			                                             Capital                 Shares          Reserve      Profits      Company      Interests     Equity

			                   Note                      RM                      RM              RM           RM           RM           RM            RM

The Group									

									

Balance at 31.12.2022/1.1.2023		                158,968,786 (5,452,652) (8,138,999) 216,393,640 361,770,775                    479,949 362,250,724

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -              - 83,266,067 83,266,067       89,222 83,355,289

Other comprehensive income for the									

financial year:-      31							

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -              -   (19,127)     (19,127)                -  (19,127)

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        -     7,705,473              -  7,705,473    14,176        7,719,649

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        -     7,705,473 83,246,940 90,952,413        103,398 91,055,811

									

Contributions by and distributions to									

owners of the Company:-								

- issuance of shares  19                            144                           -              -             -      144                 -      144

- Dividends:-								

- by the Company      33                                 -                        -              - (21,747,201) (21,747,201)              - (21,747,201)

Total transactions with owners		                           144                       -            - (21,747,201) (21,747,057)           - (21,747,057)
					                                           158,968,930             (5,452,652)     (433,526) 277,893,379 430,976,131      583,347 431,559,478
Balance as at 31.12.2023		
					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.                                                                                    • ANNUAL REPORT

                                                                                                                                                          63
64 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

			                                          Share        Treasury                   Retained     Total

			                                          Capital                    Shares       Profits      Equity

		                                     Note  RM                         RM           RM           RM

						

The Company					

Balance at 1.1.2022		                        158,968,786                (2,432,449) 29,324,677 185,861,014

						

Profit after taxation/Total

comprehensive income

for the financial year		                              -                         -    27,578,801   27,578,801

						

Contributions by and

distributions to owners						

of the Company:-		                                    -                 (3,020,203)            -  (3,020,203)

- Dividends                            33             -                         -    (7,805,317) (7,805,317)

						

			                                                   -                         -    (7,805,317) (10,825,520)

			

Balance at 31.12.2022/1.1.2023		             158,968,786                (5,452,652) 49,098,161 202,614,295

						

Profit after taxation/Total

comprehensive income						

for the financial year		                              -                         -    15,228,352   15,228,352

						

Contributions by and

distributions to owners

of the Company:-					

- Issuance of shares                   19           144                         -              -         144

- Dividends                            33             -                         - (21,747,201) (21,747,201)

						

			                                                 144                         - (21,747,201) (21,747,057)

			

Balance at 31.12.2023		                      158,968,930                (5,452,652) 42,579,312 196,095,590

			

						

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT  65

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                               The Group                             The Company

			                                            2023                     2022         2023        2022

			RM                                                                   RM           RM          RM

CASH FLOWS FROM/(FOR) 					

OPERATING ACTIVITIES					

Profit before taxation                         107,441,000  81,371,526               15,095,703  27,668,769

						

Adjustments for:-					

Allowance for impairment 					

losses on receivables                          169,685                  398,010            -           -

Impairment losses on receivables

no longer required                             (567,102)                (400,632)          -           -

Allowance for stock obsolescence               1,469                    11,679             -           -

Amortisation of intangible assets              301,642                  410,650            -           -

Bad debts written off                          187,615                  305,308            -           -

Changes in fair value of biological assets     (5,468,834) (3,092,442)                     -           -

Depreciation of investment properties          817,994                  842,316            -           -

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  25,904,519   24,808,490               160,847     160,924

Allowance for impairment losses on amount

owing by subsidiary                                  -                        -      969,541           -

Impairment loss on investment in a subsidiary        -                        -      100,000     6,444,262

Dividend income                                      -                        - (16,851,000) (35,098,164)

Gain on disposal of property, plant

and equipment                                  (37,722)                 (449,074)          -           -

Gain on disposal of investment properties      (1,379,446) (5,979,315)                     -           -

Gain on bargain purchase                             -                  (4,498,651)        -           -

Interest expense                               2,655,069                2,445,369          -     195,051

Interest income                                (592,283)                (352,928)    (525,511)   (465,677)

Property, plant and equipment written off      38,016                   260,542            -           -

Provision for employee benefits                334,342                  (55,461)           -           -

Share of profits of an equity accounted

associate                                      (4,779,040) (4,521,456)                     -           -

Fair value gain on short-term investment       (201,493)                (42,449)     (201,493)   (42,449)

Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign exchange     1,376                    (1,681)            -           -

		

Operating profit/(loss) before working

capital changes                                124,826,807  91,459,801               (1,251,913) (1,137,284)

						

Decrease/(increase) in inventories             15,442,719 (41,143,709)                     -           -

Increase in trade and other receivables        (3,856,706) (12,452,462)              (183,298)   (292,212)

(Decrease)/increase in trade and

other payables                                 (4,089,355) 10,307,262                208,414     (6,936,721)

Employee benefits paid                         (70,110)                 (66,555)           -           -

		

CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATIONS/					

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD                        132,253,355  48,104,337               (1,226,797) (8,366,217)

						

		

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
66 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                  The Group                        The Company

			                                           2023                      2022       2023        2022

		                                     Note   RM                        RM         RM          RM

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		                     132,253,355  48,104,337              (1,226,797) (8,366,217)

Income tax paid		                             (21,752,085) (15,137,642)                  -           -

Income tax refunded		                         2,795,058                 116,528          -           -

Interest paid		                               (2,655,069) (2,445,369)                    -     (195,051)

Interest received		                           592,283                   352,928    525,511     465,677

			

NET CASH FROM/(FOR)						

OPERATING ACTIVITIES		                        111,233,542  30,990,782              (701,286) (8,095,591)

							

CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES						

Acquisition of subsidiaries            34           - (21,372,709)                       -           -

Proceeds from disposal of short-						

term investment		                             13,500,000                      -    13,500,000        -

Purchase of short-term investment 		          (11,035,688) (8,002,341) (11,035,688) (8,002,341)

Drawdown from subsidiaries		                        -                         -    (586,628) (8,320,664)

Dividend received		                                 -                         -    16,851,000  35,098,164

Dividend received from an associate		               -      11,098,164                    -           -

Proceeds from issuance of

ordinary shares		                                   144                       -          -           -

Proceeds from disposal of 						

property, plant and equipment		               174,405                   1,421,144        -           -

Proceeds from disposal of 						

investment properties		                       1,800,000    18,000,000                    -           -

Proceeds from disposal of 						

biological assets		                           765,967                         -          -           -

Purchase of property, plant 						

and equipment                          35(a)  (33,670,214) (19,210,099)            (1,850)      (9,247)

							

NET CASH (FOR)/FROM 						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES		                        (28,465,386) (18,065,841) 18,726,834 18,765,912

			

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD		                     82,768,156   12,924,941              18,025,548 10,670,321

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT  67

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                           The Group                                 The Company

			                                    2023                             2022         2023        2022

		                              Note   RM                               RM           RM          RM

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		              82,768,156   12,924,941                       18,025,548  10,670,321

							

CASH FLOWS FOR						

FINANCING ACTIVITIES						

Increase in amount 						

owing to subsidiaries           35(b)        -                                -      3,926,765   5,886,600

Dividend paid:-					

- by the Company                33     (21,747,201) (7,805,317) (21,747,201) (7,805,317)

Purchase of treasury shares		                -                          (3,020,203)        -     (3,020,203)

Drawdown of bankers'						

acceptance                      35(b)  3,930,448                        9,456,249          -           -

Proceeds from issuance of share		            -                                -            144         -

Repayment of lease liabilities  35(d)  (2,839,142) (2,655,145)                             -           -

Repayment of revolving credit   35(b)        -                          (6,000,000)        -     (6,000,000)

Repayment of term loans         35(b)  (809,536)                        (823,533)          -           -

							

NET CASH FOR						

FINANCING ACTIVITIES		                 (21,465,431) (10,847,949) (17,820,292) (10,938,920)

			

NET INCREASE/(DECREASE)						

IN CASH AND CASH						

EQUIVALENTS		                          61,302,725                       2,076,992    205,256     (268,599)

							

EFFECTS OF FOREIGN						

EXCHANGE TRANSLATION		                 1,987,648                        (2,246,442)        -           -

							

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT BEGINNING OF THE 						

FINANCIAL YEAR		                       57,036,154   57,205,604                       626,326     894,925

			

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT END OF THE 						

FINANCIAL YEAR                  35(c)  120,326,527  57,036,154                       831,582     626,326

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
68 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

      NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

         1. GENERAL INFORMATION

                   The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. The registered
                   office, which is also the principal place of business, is Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
                   Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak.

                   The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
                   made up to the end of the reporting period.

                   The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
                   functional and presentation currency.

                   The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of
                   the directors dated

2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

        The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management
        services. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have
        been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

The financial statements of the Group and of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention
and modified to include other bases of valuation as disclosed in other sections under material accounting
policy information, and in compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

3.1 During the current financial year, the Group and the Company have adopted the following new accounting
        standard(s) and/or interpretation(s) (including the consequential amendments, if any):-

		  MFRSs and/or IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)
		  MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
		  Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
		  Amendment to MFRS 17: Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative Information
		  Amendment to MFRS 101: Disclosure of Accounting Policies
		  Amendments to MFRS 108: Definition of Accounting Estimates
		  Amendments to MFRS 112: Deferred Tax related to Assets an Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
		  Amendments to MFRS 112: International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules

		  The adoption of the above accounting standard(s) and interpretation(s) (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
                                                                                    • ANNUAL REPORT              69

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)

3.2 The Group and the Company have not applied in advance the following accounting standard(s) and/
        or interpretation(s) (including the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the
        Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:-

		  MFRSs and IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)           Effective Date

		  Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128: Sale or Contribution of Assets                       Deferred
                                                                                    1 January 2024
			 between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture                          1 January 2024
                                                                                    1 January 2024
		  Amendments to MFRS 16: Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback                    1 January 2024
                                                                                    1 January 2025
		  Amendment to MFRS 101: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current

		  Amendments to MFRS 101: Non-current Liabilities with Covenants

		  Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7: Supplier Finance Arrangements

		  Amendments to MFRS 121: Lack of Exchangeability

		  The adoption of the above accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s) (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) is expected to have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group and
    of the Company upon their initial application. 

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

		  Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty

		  Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key
    sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material
    adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year other than as
    disclosed below:-

		  (a) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

			  The estimates for the residual values, useful lives and related depreciation charges for the property,
     plant and equipment are based on commercial factors which could change significantly as a result
     of technical innovations and competitors’ actions in response to the market conditions. The Group
     and the Company anticipate that the residual values of its property, plant and equipment will be
     insignificant. As a result, residual values are not being taken into consideration for the computation
     of the depreciable amount. Changes in the expected level of usage and technological development
     could impact the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets, therefore future
     depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as
     at the reporting date is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

		  (b) Write-down of Inventories

			  Reviews are made periodically by management on damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
     inventories. These reviews require judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates
     could result in revisions to the valuation of inventories. The carrying amount of inventories as at
     the reporting date is disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.

		(c) Impairment of Trade Receivables

			  The Group uses the simplified approach to estimate a lifetime expected credit loss allowance
     for all trade receivables. The Group develops the expected loss rates based on the payment
     profiles of past sales and the corresponding historical credit losses, and adjusts for qualitative
     and quantitative reasonable and supportable forward-looking information. If the expectation is
     different from the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying amount of trade receivables.
     The carrying amount of trade receivables as at the reporting date are disclosed in Note 14 to the
     financial statements. 
70 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (Cont’d)

    (d) Impairment of Non-Trade Receivables

			  The loss allowances for non-trade financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default
     (probability of default) and expected loss if a default happens (loss given default). It also requires
     the Group to assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk of the non-trade financial
     asset at the reporting date. The Group uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting
     appropriate inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the past payment trends, existing
     market conditions and forward-looking information. The carrying amounts of other receivables
     and amounts owing by subsidiaries as at the reporting date are disclosed in Note 16 and 17 to the
     financial statements respectively.

		(e) Income Taxes

			  There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination may be
     different from the initial estimate. The Group and the Company recognises tax liabilities based
     on its understanding of the prevailing tax laws and estimates of whether such taxes will be due
     in the ordinary course of business. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the
     amounts that were initially recognised, such difference will impact the income tax expense and
     deferred tax balances in the period in which such determination is made. The carrying amount of
     current tax liabilities of the Group as at the reporting date is RM 8,472,246 (2022 – RM 7,617,185).

    (f) Deferred tax assets

			  Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses
     and unabsorbed capital allowances to the extent that is probable that future taxable profits would
     be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses or unabsorbed
     capital allowances could be utilised. Management judgement is required to determine the amount
     of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on the assessment of the probability of the
     future taxable profits. The carrying amount deferred tax assets as at the reporting date is disclosed
     in Note 11 to the financial statements.

		(g) Discount Rates used in Leases

			  Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group uses the
     incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental borrowing rate is the
     interest rate that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, the funds necessary
     to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
     Therefore, the incremental borrowing rate requires estimation particularly when no observable
     rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the
     lease. The Group estimates the incremental borrowing rate using observable inputs when available
     and is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.

    (h) Biological Assets

			  The fair value of biological assets is determined using a discounted cash flow model which
     considers the expected quantity and price of the agricultural produce over the life of the biological
     assets, taking into account the biological assets mortality rate.

			  In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are
     required which include the expected number of agricultural produce, the expected selling prices,
     mortality rate, consumption rate, feed costs and other estimated costs over the remaining life of
     the biological assets, as well as the discount rates. Changes to any of these assumptions would
     affect the fair value of the biological assets.
                                                              • ANNUAL REPORT                                  71

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies

		  Management believes that there are no instances of application of critical judgement in applying the
    accounting policies of the Group and of the Company which will have a significant effect on the amounts
    recognised in the financial statements other than as disclosed below: -

    (a) Classification between Investment Properties and Owner-occupied Properties

			  Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation
     and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
     administrative purposes. If these portions could be sold separately (or leased out separately under
     a finance lease), the Group and the Company accounts for the portions separately. If the portions
     could not be sold separately, the property is an investment property only if an insignificant portion
     is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

    (b) Lease Terms

			  Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Group before the end of the non-
     cancellable contract period. In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and
     circumstances including the past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset if
     an option to extend is not taken. An extension options is only included in the lease term if the lease
     is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

    (c) Contingent Liabilities

			  The recognition and measurement for contingent liabilities is based on management’s view of the
     expected outcome on contingencies after consulting legal counsel for litigation cases and experts,
     for matters in the ordinary course of business. Furthermore, management is of the view that the
     chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees issued by the Group and
     the Company are remote

4.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		(a) Financial Assets

			Financial Assets Through Profit or Loss

			  The financial assets are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the
     financial assets are remeasured to their fair values at the reporting date with fair value changes
     recognised in profit or loss. The fair value changes do not include interest and dividend income.

			Financial Assets at Amortised Cost

			  The financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs except for trade
     receivables without significant financing component which are measured at transaction price only.
     Subsequent to the initial recognition, all financial assets are measured at amortised cost less any
     impairment losses.

			Financial Assets Through Other Comprehensive Income

			  The financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequent to the
     initial recognition, the financial assets are remeasured to their fair values at the reporting date with
     fair value changes taken up in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value
     reserve, except for the recognition of impairment, interest income and foreign exchange difference
     of a debt instrument which are recognised directly in profit or loss. The fair value changes do not
     include interest and dividend income.
72 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONT’D)

4.2 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

		(b) Financial Liabilities

			Financial Liabilities Through Profit or Loss

			  The financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the
     financial liabilities are remeasured to their fair values at the reporting date with fair value changes
     recognised in profit or loss. The fair value changes do not include interest.

			Financial Liabilities at Amortised Cost

			  The financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less transaction costs. Subsequent to the
     initial recognition, the financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.

		(c) Equity

			Ordinary Shares

			  Ordinary shares are recorded on initial recognition at the proceeds received less directly attributable
     transaction costs incurred. The ordinary shares are not remeasured subsequently.

			Treasury Shares

			  Treasury shares are recorded on initial recognition at the consideration paid less directly attributable
     transaction costs incurred. The treasury shares are not remeasured subsequently.

			  No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the
     treasury shares. If such shares are issued by resale, any difference between the sales consideration
     received and the carrying amount of the treasury shares is recognised in equity. Where treasury
     shares are cancelled, their carrying amounts are shown as a movement in retained profits.

		(d) Financial Guarantee Contracts

			  Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as liabilities at fair value, net of transaction
     costs. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the financial guarantee contracts are recognised as
     income in profit or loss over the period of the guarantee or, when there is no specific contractual
     period, recognised in profit or loss upon discharge of the guarantee. If the debtor fails to make
     payment relating to a financial guarantee contract when it is due and the Group, as the issuer, is
     required to reimburse the holder for the associated loss, the reimbursement is recognised as a
     liability and measured at the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined using the expected
     credit loss model and the amount of financial guarantee initially recognised less cumulative
     amortisation.

4.3 GOODWILL

		  Goodwill is initially measured at cost. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the goodwill is measured
    at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. A bargain purchase gain is recognised in profit or loss
    immediately.

4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

		  Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial
    statements of the Company at cost less impairment losses, if any.
                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT                   73

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONT’D)

4.5 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES

		  Investments in associates are stated in the separate financial statements of the Company at cost less
    impairment losses, if any and accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial
    statements.

4.6 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

		  All items of property, plant and equipment, are initially measured at cost.

		  Subsequent to initial recognition, all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and buildings,
    are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.

		  Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is calculated
    using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable amounts over the estimated useful lives. The
    principal annual depreciation rates are:-

		  Buildings                          2% - 5%
		  Furniture, fittings and equipment  10% - 20%
		  Coldroom, plant and machinery      10% - 20%
		  Motor vehicles                     20%
		  Renovation                         10% - 20%

		  Capital work-in-progress included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated until such time
    when the asset is available for use.

4.7 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		  Investment properties are initially measured at cost. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the investment
    properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

		  Depreciation on investment properties is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the
    depreciable amounts over the estimated useful lives. The principal annual depreciation periods and rate
    are:-

		  Leasehold land                     59 – 78 years
		  Buildings                          1.69% - 10%

4.8 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES

    (a) Short-term Leases and Leases of Low-value Assets

			  The Group and the Company apply the “short-term lease” and “lease of low-value assets”
     recognition exemption. For these leases, the Group and the Company recognise the lease
     payments as an operating expense on a straight-line method over the term of the lease unless
     another systematic basis is more appropriate.

		(b) Right-of-use assets

			  Right-of-use Assets are initially measured at cost. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the right-
     ofuse assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment
     losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities.

			  The right-of-use assets are depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
     date to the earlier of the end of the estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets or the end of
     the lease term.
74 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONT’D)

4.8 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)

		(c) Lease Liabilities

			  Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
     at the commencement date, discounted using the entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Subsequent
     to the initial recognition, the lease liabilities are measured at amortised cost and adjusted for any
     lease reassessment or modifications.

4.9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS

		  Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. The cost of intangible assets recognised in a business
    combination is their fair values as at the date of acquisition. Subsequent to the initial recognition, the
    intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment
    losses.

    (a) Intangible Asset with Definite Useful Life

			  The intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method to allocate their depreciable
     amounts over the following periods:-

			  Land rights                       6 years

4.10 INVENTORIES

		  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs is determined on the weighted
    average cost method and comprises all costs of purchase plus other costs incurred in bringing the
    inventories to their present location and condition.

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

                                                        The Company

			                                    		 2023              2022

					                                                   RM  RM

		 Unquoted shares, at cost					                            69,339,149
		 - in Malaysia				 75,339,149                             18,108,952
		 - outside Malaysia				 18,108,952
						                                                      87,448,101
						 93,448,101                                           (6,444,262)
		 Less: Accumulated impairment losses			 (6,544,262)
						                                                      81,003,839
						 86,903,839
						
                                                                                         • ANNUAL REPORT  75

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-

			                           Principal Place     Percentage of
                                                  Issued Share/
			                                of Business    Capital Held by

			                                Country of          Parent
                                                   2023 2022
Name of Subsidiary                 Incorporation                   Principal Activities

				

Ableway Sdn. Bhd.                  Malaysia       100% 100%        General trading and investment

						 holding

				

Ataskota Sdn. Bhd.                 Malaysia       100% 100%        Selling, spawning and culturing of

						 prawns

CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.           Malaysia       100% 100%        Retailing coldstorage products

						 and investment holding

				

CCK Fresh Mart                     Malaysia       100% 100%        Leasing of buildings

		 (West Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

CCK Sea Products Industries        Malaysia       100% 100%        Culturing and trading of prawns

		 Sdn. Bhd.

				

Central Coldstorage Kuching        Malaysia       100% 100%        Trading cold storage goods,

		 Sdn. Bhd.					 poultry processing, importer and

						 distributor of frozen goods and

						 investment holding

				

C.S. Choice Food Industries        Malaysia       100% 100%        Manufacturing, processing,

		 Sdn. Bhd.					 packing and distribution of meat

						 and other food products

				

Kin Eastern Frozen Food            Malaysia       100% 100%        Processing and dealing of frozen

Sdn. Bhd. 					 seafood and ice

				

Kuok Sui Sea Products              Malaysia       100% 100%        Processing and exporting of sea

		 Industries (S) Sdn. Bhd.					 products

				

Pt. Adilmart^                      Indonesia      100% 100%        Retailing of coldstorage products

				

Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia            100% 100%        Poultry breeding, hatching of

		 (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd.					 eggs and trading

				

Hawker Time Food Hall              Malaysia       100% 100%        Proprietors of fast-food

		 Sdn. Bhd. #                                				 restaurants, catering services,

						 food and beverage stall or 		

						 hawkers and coffee shop

				

CCK Properties Sdn. Bhd. #         Malaysia       100% 100%        Investment and letting of 		

						 properties

Subsidiary of Ableway Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

Angkutan Golden Plan Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia           100% 100%        Provision of transportation 		

						 services
76 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

   The details of the subsidiaries are as follows (cont’d):-

			                                    Principal Place Percentage of

			                                    of Business    Issued Share/

			                                    Country of     Capital Held by

   Name of Subsidiary                  Incorporation          Parent   Principal Activities

				                                                  2023 2022

				

   Subsidiary of CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Mukah Seafoods Industries           Malaysia       100% 100%        Trading of seafood and 		

   Sdn. Bhd. 					 coldstorage foodstuff

				

   Subsidiaries of Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.      Malaysia       100% 100%        Livestock breeding, egg laying

   						 and trading

				

   Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia             100% 100%        Poultry farming and trading

		 Sdn. Bhd.

				

   Subsidiary of Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Farm Land Supplies &                Malaysia       100% 100%        Providing veterinary supplies and

		 Veterinary Services Sdn. Bhd.					 related services

				

   Subsidiaries of Pt. Adilmart:-

				

   Pt. Central Coldstorage             Indonesia      90% 90%          Dormant

		 Khatulistiwa^

   Pt. Bonanza Pratama Abadi^          Indonesia      99% 99%          Processing, freezing

							 and export of prawns

   ^ These subsidiaries were audited by other firms of Chartered accountants.

   # The auditors’ report on the financial statements of the subsidiary includes a “Material Uncertainty Related
           to Going Concern” regarding the ability of the subsidiary to continue as a going concern in view of its
           capital deficiency position as at the end of the current reporting period. The financial statements were
           prepared on a going concern basis as the Company has undertaken to provide continued financial
           support to the subsidiary.

   (a) In the previous financial year, the Group has acquired 99% equity interests in Pt. Bonanza Pratama
           Abadi. The details of the acquisition are disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.

   (b) During the current financial year, the Company subscribed for 6,000,000 ordinary shares of RM1 each
           in Zhang Agriculture Development (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, by
           capitalising the amount owing by the subsidiary.

   (c) During the financial year, the Company has carried out a review of the recoverable amounts of its
           investments in certain subsidiaries that had been persistently making losses. A total impairment losses of
           RM100,000 (2022 – RM6,444,262), representing the write-down of the investments to their recoverable
           amounts, was recognised in “other operating expenses” line item of the statement of profit or loss and
           other comprehensive income.

 
                                                                                                       • ANNUAL REPORT  77

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

(d) The non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period comprise the following:-

                                                    Effective Equity

                                                           Interest                  The Group

			 2023                                                             2022        2023                  2022

					                                                                            RM                    RM

			

			   Pt. Central Coldstorage Khatulistiwa          10.0%            10.0%        92,114                92,114
                                                                                 491,233               387,835
			   Pt. Bonanza Pramata Abadi                     1.0%             1.0%

							

							                                                                          583,347               479,949

							

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE

                                                          The Group              The Company

			                                                 2023             2022        2023                  2022

			RM                                                                RM          RM                    RM

							

		 Unquoted shares, at cost                       19,930,171         19,930,171  19,930,171            19,930,171

		 Share of post-acquisition profits,

			 net of dividend received                      13,493,356         8,714,316         -                         -

				

				                                              33,423,527         28,644,487  19,930,171            19,930,171

				

							

		 The details of the associate are as follows:-

			                                    Principal Place Effective Equity

Name of Associate                      of Business         Interest              Principal Activities

				                                                2023 2022

				

Gold Coin Sarawak                      Malaysia     27.20% 27.20%                Manufacture and sale of animal

     Sdn. Bhd.#					 feeds, trading in feed grains and

						 livestock business

# The associate was audited by another firm of chartered accountants.

The investment in the associate is a strategic investment for the Group as it secures a long term supply of
quality feeds for the Group’s poultry operations and also allows the Group to venture into the feedmill business
thus enhancing the Group’s profitability.
78 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONT’D)

(a) The summarised financial information for the associate is as follows:-

		                                                                          Gold Coin Sarawak

		                                                                                Sdn. Bhd.

					                                                                       2023             2022

					                                                                       RM               RM

			 At 31 December					

			  Non-current assets			 10,488,000                                                  11,573,000

			  Current assets			 153,991,000 195,893,000

			  Non-current liabilities			                                             (228,000)        (780,000)

			  Current liabilities			 (54,364,000) (114,369,000)

						

			  Net assets			 109,887,000                                                         92,317,000

						

					

			 Financial Year Ended 31 December					

			  Revenue			 334,488,000 473,592,000

			  Profit for the financial year			 17,570,000                                       16,623,000

			  Total comprehensive income			 17,570,000                                          16,623,000

						

					

			  Group’s share of profit for the financial year			                      4,779,040  4,521,456

			  Dividend received			                                                         - 11,098,164

						

					

			 Reconciliation of Net Assets to Carrying Amount					

			  Group’s share of net assets above			 29,889,244                                   25,110,204

			  Goodwill			                                                            3,534,283  3,534,283

						

			  Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in this associate		 33,423,527            28,644,487

						

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT								

						 Reassessment/			

							                                                                                   Modification			

		                               At			                              Reclassi-		           of Lease Depreciation Exchange  At

		                               1.1.2023 Additions Disposals fication          Write-offs Liabilities Charges Differences 31.12.2023

The Group                        RM         RM           RM         RM          RM        RM     RM          RM           RM

												

2023										

		

Carrying Amount										

		

Owned assets										

Freehold land                    1,436,000      -            -          -           -         -      -                    - 1,436,000

Buildings                        52,864,687 3,793,784        - 2,937,873            -         - (5,201,036) 1,372,516 55,767,824

Furniture,fitting and equipment  8,531,987 1,919,415     (18,847)   61,573      (27,275)      - (2,224,768) 110,930 8,353,015

Coldroom, plant and machinery    47,716,256 11,203,542   (2,052) 2,489,684      (10,741)      - (11,537,504) 1,607,097 51,466,282

Motor vehicles                   3,081,879 3,580,835         -      91,950          -         - (1,471,110)  57,021 5,340,575

Renovation                       5,652,750 2,288,229         -      69,859          -         - (1,521,716)               - 6,489,122

Electrical installation          627,140 225,104             -          -           -         -  (86,035)                 - 766,209

Capital work in progress         8,198,947 8,444,211         - (5,700,868)          -         -      -       7,055 10,949,345

			

			                              128,109,646 31,455,120  (20,899) (49,929) (38,016)           - (22,042,169) 3,154,619 140,568,372

											

Right-of-use assets										

		

Leasehold land                   56,998,637 2,215,094 (115,784)         -           -         - (557,300) 1,346,825 59,887,472

Buildings                        15,727,553 2,044,431        -          -           - 1,286,787 (3,305,050)               - 15,753,721

			                               72,726,190 4,259,525   (115,784)           -           - 1,286,787 (3,862,350) 1,346,825 75,641,193
			                              200,835,836 35,714,645  (136,683)  (49,929)    (38,016) 1,286,787 (25,904,519) 4,501,444 216,209,565
			
			

                                                                                                                                        • ANNUAL REPORT

                                                                                                                                        79
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                                   80 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)								

			 Acquisition 					 Reassessment/ Transfer			

                                           of a                                                    Modification  to

		                             At          subsidiary 			                    Reclassi-		           of Lease investment Depreciation Exchange        At

                               1.1.2022 (Note 34) Additions Disposals fication Write-offs Liabilities properties Charges Differences 31.12.2022

The Group                      RM          RM          RM         RM         RM         RM         RM            RM        RM          RM           RM		

										

2022												

Carrying Amount												

Owned assets

Freehold land                  1,436,000 		                -          -          -          -          -             -         -              - 1,436,000

Buildings                      53,608,016 2,713,968 591,254 (166,693) 8,762,973             -          - (7,505,977) (4,819,338) (319,516) 52,864,687

Furniture,fittings and equipment 8,001,392 390,288 2,377,494      (71,622)   76,237     (3,539)        -             -    (2,229,464)  (8,799) 8,531,987

Coldroom,plant and machinery 49,283,639 2,404,335 7,907,859       (35,661) 684,448 (104,064)           -             -    (11,560,110) (864,190) 47,716,256

Motor vehicles                 1,987,727 300,048 1,651,321            - 366,464             -          -             - (1,207,024) (16,657) 3,081,879

Renovation                     5,494,412         - 948,738        (78,365) 799,887          -          -             - (1,511,922)            - 5,652,750

Electrical installation        475,199           - 213,872            -          (910)      -          -             -     (61,021)           - 627,140

Capital work in progress       13,607,964        -    5,519,561   (81,248) (10,689,099) (152,939)      -             -         -    (5,292) 8,198,947

			

			                            133,894,349 5,808,639 19,210,099 (433,589)        - (260,542)           - (7,505,977) (21,388,879) (1,214,454) 128,109,646

													

Right-of-use assets												

Leasehold land                 52,783,445 5,904,672        - (538,481)           -          -          -             - (620,479) (530,520) 56,998,637

Buildings                      17,953,888        - 1,219,600          -          -          - (649,703)              - (2,796,232)            - 15,727,553

Coldroom, plant and machinery  2,900             -         -          -          -          -          -             -    (2,900)             -         -

			                             70,740,233 5,904,672 1,219,600    (538,481)      -          - (649,703)              - (3,419,611) (530,520) 72,726,190
			                            204,634,582 11,713,311 20,429,699  (972,070)
			                                                                              - (260,542) (649,703) (7,505,977) (24,808,490) (1,744,974) 200,835,836 		
			
                                                                           • ANNUAL REPORT  81

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

					                                                         Accumulated

			                                At          Accumulated Impairment      Carrying

			                                Cost        Depreciation   Losses       Amount

The Group                          RM          RM             RM           RM

				

2023				

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                      1,630,091       -          (194,091)    1,436,000

Buildings                          119,522,684 (63,754,860)            -   55,767,824

Furniture, fittings and equipment  36,618,094 (28,265,079)             -   8,353,015

Coldroom, plant and machinery      187,615,368 (136,149,086)           -   51,466,282

Motor vehicles                     25,711,386 (20,370,811)             -   5,340,575

Renovation                         23,351,118 (16,861,996)             -   6,489,122

Electrical installation            1,014,779   (248,570)               -   766,209

Capital work-in-progress           10,949,345      -                   -   10,949,345

			

			                                406,412,865 (265,650,402)  (194,091) 140,568,372

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                     70,683,863 (10,309,396)    (486,995) 59,887,472

Buildings                          29,585,780 (13,832,059)             -   15,753,721

Coldroom, plant and machinery      107,258     (107,258)               -             -

				

			                                100,376,901 (24,248,713)   (486,995) 75,641,193

			

			                                506,789,766 (289,899,115)  (681,086) 216,209,565

			

				

2022				

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                      1,630,091       -          (194,091)    1,436,000

Buildings                          111,592,150 (58,727,463)            -   52,864,687

Furniture, fittings and equipment  35,692,347 (27,160,360)             -   8,531,987

Coldroom, plant and machinery      171,209,770 (123,493,514)           -   47,716,256

Motor vehicles                     22,271,669 (19,189,790)             -   3,081,879

Renovation                         20,993,031 (15,340,281)             -   5,652,750

Electrical installation            789,675     (162,535)               -   627,140

Capital work-in-progress           8,198,947       -                   -   8,198,947

			

			                                372,377,680 (244,073,943)  (194,091) 128,109,646

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                     67,237,728  (9,752,096)    (486,995) 56,998,637

Buildings                          26,254,562 (10,527,009)             -   15,727,553

Coldroom, plant and machinery      107,258     (107,258)               -             -

				

			                                93,599,548 (20,386,363)    (486,995) 72,726,190

			

			                                465,977,228 (264,460,306)  (681,086) 200,835,836

			
82 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				

			                                    At		                     Depreciation  At

			                                    1.1.2023   Additions     Charges       31.12.2023

The Company                            RM         RM            RM            RM

				

2023				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment                              17,867     1,850         (4,135)       15,582

Renovation                             3,739                 -      (712)     3,027

			

			                                    21,606     1,850         (4,847)       18,609

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                         8,353,589             -  (156,000)     8,197,589

			

			                                    8,375,195  1,850         (160,847)     8,216,198

			

				

			                                    At		                     Depreciation  At

			                                    1.1.2022   Additions     Charges       31.12.2022

The Company                            RM         RM            RM            RM

				

2022				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment                              14,710     7,444         (4,287)       17,867

Renovation                             2,575      1,803             (639)     3,739

			

			                                    17,285     9,247         (4,926)       21,606

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                         8,509,587             -  (155,998)     8,353,589

			

			                                    8,526,872  9,247         (160,924)     8,375,195

			

				

				                                              At            Accumulated   Carrying

				                                              Cost          Depreciation  Amount

The Company		 RM                                                RM            RM

				

2023				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                       77,410        (61,828)      15,582

Renovation		                                      7,127         (4,100)       3,027

				

				                                              84,537        (65,928)      18,609

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                  9,401,979     (1,204,390)   8,197,589

				

				                                              9,486,516     (1,270,318)   8,216,198

				
                                                                                      • ANNUAL REPORT        83

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				                                                         At         Accumulated   Carrying

				                                                         Cost       Depreciation  Amount

The Company		 RM                                                        RM               RM

				

2022				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                                  75,560     (57,693)         17,867

Renovation		                                                 7,127      (3,388)          3,739

				

				                                                         82,687     (61,081)         21,606

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                             9,401,979  (1,048,390)   8,353,589

				

				                                                         9,484,666  (1,109,471)   8,375,195

				

(a) The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment pledged to licensed banks as security for banking
        facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 22 to the financial statements is as follows:-

		                                                                            The Group

					                                                                   2023             2022

					                                                                   RM               RM

			

		  Leasehold land                         		                           9,426,663     9,663,021

		  Buildings                              		 10,586,120                              11,518,330

					

					 20,012,783                                                                      21,181,351

					

			

(b) Included in the assets of the Group were freehold lands with a total carrying amount of RM936,000 (2022

    – RM936,000) which were held in trust by a third party.

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee

		  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
    equipment for its operational purposes:-

		  i) Leasehold land

			  The Group made upfront payment to secure the right-of-use of leasehold lands for lease periods
     ranging from 14 to 906 years. Certain leasehold lands are pledged to licensed banks as security
     for banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in (a) above. There is no option to purchase
     the leasehold land at the expiry of the lease periods.

		  ii) Buildings

			  The Group leases a number of buildings which are used as retail stores that run between 1 year
     to 10 years, with an option to renew the leases upon the expiry of the respective lease terms.
     The lease agreements do not impose any covenant other than the ownership rights in the leased
     assets that are held by lessor. The Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased
     assets without the written consent of the lessor and the leased assets may not be used as security
     for borrowing purposes.

			  Certain buildings of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rentals
     payable monthly. Each of the leases contains an initial non-cancellable period of 1 year and the
     subsequent renewals are negotiated separately on a contract by contract basis.
84 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee (Cont’d)

		  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
    equipment for its operational purposes:- (Cont’d)

		  iii) Other equipment

			           The Group also leases photocopier machines. The Group determines that these assets are low
              value when it is new, regardless of the age of the assets being leased. The Group elected not to
              recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these assets.

(d) Leases – the Group as an intermediate lessor

		  The Group subleases out buildings to third parties for monthly lease payments for a period ranging
    from 1 to 3 years and the subsequent renewals are renegotiated on a contract by contract basis. The
    sublease periods do not form part of the remaining lease terms under the head leases and accordingly,
    the subleases are classified as operating leases.

		  The Group does not require a financial guarantee. Instead, the Group requires 1 to 3 months of advance
    payments from the lessees. The leases do not include residual value guarantee and variable lease
    payments.

		  The lease income of the Group recognised during the financial year were RM19,820 (2022 – RM 44,720).

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		                                                                                     The Group
					
					                                                 2023                                        2022

                                                      RM                                          RM

Cost:-			

At 1 January			 12,424,089                                                                17,691,414

Disposal                                          		  (548,200) (12,773,302)

Transferred from property, plant and equipment			                                      -  7,505,977

					

At 31 December                                    		 11,875,889                           12,424,089

					

			

Accumulated depreciation:-			

At 1 January                                      		  1,677,134                           1,587,435

Disposal			                                           (127,646)                                   (752,617)

Depreciation during the financial year            		  817,994                                     842,316

			

At 31 December			                                     2,367,482                           1,677,134

					

					                                                 9,508,407                           10,746,955

					

Fair value                                        		 12,276,000                           13,476,000

					

			

Represented by:-			

Leasehold land                                    		  2,928,984                           3,249,573

Buildings                                         		  6,579,423                           7,497,382

					

At 31 December                                    		  9,508,407                           10,746,955

					

			

(a) The investment properties of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rental

    payable monthly. The leases contain initial non-cancellable periods of 1-5 years.
                                                                                                • ANNUAL REPORT     85

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONT’D)

(a) The undiscounted operating lease payments receivable are as follows:-

		                                                                                    The Group
					
					                                                                           2023             2022

                                                                                RM               RM

		   Within one year                            		                              18,000           18,000

		   Between 1 and 2 years                      		                              13,200           13,200

		   Between 2 and 3 years                      		                              26,400           39,600

					

					                                                                           57,600           70,800

					

				

(b) The leasehold land and buildings have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking facilities

     granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 22 to the financial statements.

(c) The fair values of the investment properties are within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and are arrived
        at by reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties and are performed by
        registered valuers having appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the
        locations and category of properties being valued. The most significant input into this valuation approach
        is the price per square foot of comparable properties.

9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

			                                    At       Exchange                        Amortisation          At
			                                1.1.2023     Difference                         Charge       31.12.2023
                                                                                      RM
        The Group                     RM            RM                                               RM

2023				

Carrying Amount				

Land rights                        3,754,512    204,701                         (301,642)         3,657,571

			                                                                                                   At
                                                                                                31.12.2022
				
                                                                                                     RM
				                                            Acquisition		

				                                            of a 		

			                                At           subsidiary                      Amortisation

			                                1.1.2022     (Note 34)                       Charge

The Group                          RM           RM                              RM

2022				

Carrying Amount				

Land rights                                  -  4,165,162                            (410,650)  3,754,512

			                                                                             Accumulated     Carrying
                                                                                Amortisation    Amount
				
                                                                                      RM           RM
				                                            At

				                                            Cost

The Group		 RM

2023				

        Land rights		                           4,165,162                       (507,591)       3,657,571
				

2022				

        Land rights		                           4,165,162                       (410,650)       3,754,512
				
86 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

10. GOODWILL

		                                                                    The Group

					                                                           2023             2022

					                                                           RM               RM

			

Cost:-			

At 1 January/31 December               		                       380,224          380,224

					

			

Goodwill acquired through business combination has been allocated to the Group’s trading and retailing cash-

generating units. No impairment testing is done on cash-generating units which are considered immaterial to

the Group.

11. DEFERRED TAX

					                                                           2023             2022

The Group			                                                    RM               RM

						

At 1 January 			                                                5,533,199     6,588,444

Acquisition of a subsidiary (Note 34)			                              -          592,455

Recognised in profit or loss (Note 30)			                       2,290,439     (1,629,772)

Recognised in other comprehensive income 			                    (5,394)          10,772

Exchange differences			                                         3,943            (28,700)

					

At 31 December 			                                              7,822,187     5,533,199

					

						

The deferrred tax is attributable to the followings:-				

					                                                           2023             2022
        The Group			                                             RM               RM

        Property, plant and equipment			                         9,438,109    10,344,028
        Fair value gain on biological assets			                    682,490                  -
        Inventory			                                              (121,716)
        Lease liabilities			                                         (2,234)      (66,922)
        Provision for employee benefits			                        (350,449)                 -
        Receivables 			
        Unused tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowance 			   2,488,544      (477,621)
                                                                (4,312,557)       (54,175)
					
				                                                             7,822,187    (4,212,111)
					
                                                                               5,533,199
                                                                                                  • ANNUAL REPORT  87

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

11. DEFERRED TAX (CONT’D)

At the end of the reporting period, the amounts of deferred tax assets not recognised (stated at gross) due to
uncertainty of their realisation are as follows:-

		                                                                                         The Group

					                                                2023                                             2022

					                                                RM                                               RM

						

Unused tax losses					

- expires in year of assessment 2028			              5,713,222                                    5,726,185

- expires in year of assessment 2029			              326,004                                          326,004

- expires in year of assessment 2030			              315,791                                          315,791

- expires in year of assessment 2031			              283,232                                          283,232

- expires in year of assessment 2032			              74,493                                           74,493

- expires in year of assessment 2033			              163,072                                                -

Unabsorbed capital allowance			                      3,252,480                                    2,993,347

Other deductible temporary differences			            1,375,033                                    1,438,767

					

					 11,503,327                                                                                  11,157,819

					

        Deferred tax assets @ 24%, if recognised			  2,760,799                                    2,677,877
					

					                                                2023                                             2022

The Company			 RM                                                                                     RM

							

At 1 January 			                                     1,475,141                                    1,385,173

Recognised in profit or loss (Note 30)			            (132,649)                                        89,968

					

At 31 December 			                                   1,342,492                                    1,475,141

					

							

The deferrred tax is attributable to the followings:-					

		

					                                                2023                                             2022

The Company			 RM                                                                                     RM

							

Property, plant and equipment			                     1,501,935                                    1,532,052

Unused tax losses 			                                (159,126)                                        (56,783)

Unabsorbed capital allowance			                                                            (317)          (128)

					

					                                                1,342,492                                    1,475,141

					

						

		                               The Group           The Company

			                        2023             2022     2023                                             2022

			                        RM               RM       RM                                               RM

Analysed as:					

Deferred tax liabilities   9,600,885  8,085,195      1,342,492                                    1,475,141

Deferred tax assets        (1,778,698) (2,551,996)                                         -                -

			

			                        7,822,187  5,533,199      1,342,492                                    1,475,141

			

						

Based on the current legislation, the unused tax losses up to the year of assessment 2018 can be carried

forward until the year of assessment 2028 and the unused tax losses for 2019 onwards are allowed to be

utilised for 10 consecutive years of assessment immediately following that year of assessment; whereas, the

unabsorbed agriculture/capital allowances are allowed to be carried forward indefinitely.
88 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

12. INVENTORIES

		                                                                                   The Group
					
					                                                                          2023                   2022

                                                                               RM                     RM

At cost:-

Trading goods			 82,093,266                                                                            94,962,942
                                                                                                         3,213,242
Raw materials			                                                               3,058,165                 8,431,989

Consumable stores			                                                           7,974,306              106,608,173

					                                                                                                     (553,589)

					 93,125,737                                                                                      106,054,584

Less: Allowance for obsolescence and impairment losses

		 of inventories			                                                           (555,716)

					

					 92,570,021

					

13. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS

					                                                            Decrease due to 		

					                                                            sale/         Fair value

			                                    Balance as Arising from depopulation/   gain in                Balance

			                                    beginning cost of inputs livestock losses profit or loss       at end

The Group                              RM             RM		RM                                          RM

							

2023						

At fair value less costs to sell						

Broiler breeders                       9,294,158      23,221,636 (23,221,636)  2,863,060              12,157,218

Broilers                               2,008,451      30,479,414 (30,479,414)  623,863                2,632,314

Hatching eggs                          1,104,537      2,905,892  (2,905,892)   660,320                1,764,857

Prawns                                 765,967        -          (765,967)                 -                   -

Layers                                 3,479,183      37,491,514 (37,491,514)  1,321,591              4,800,774

			

			                                    16,652,296     94,098,456 (94,864,423)  5,468,834              21,355,163

			

							

					                                                            Decrease due to 		

					                                                            sale/         Fair value

			                                    Balance as     Arising from depopulation/ gain/(loss) in       Balance

			                                    beginning      cost of inputs livestock losses profit or loss  at end

2022                                   RM             RM		RM                                          RM

							

At fair value less costs to sell						

Broiler breeders                       8,389,055      24,181,112 (24,181,112)  905,103                9,294,158

Broilers                               1,349,632      25,002,829 (25,002,829)  658,819                2,008,451

Hatching eggs                          1,253,662      3,015,663  (3,015,663)   (149,125)              1,104,537

Prawns                                             -  953,897           -      (187,930)              765,967

Layers                                 1,613,608      37,770,847 (37,770,847)  1,865,575              3,479,183

			

			                                    12,605,957     90,924,348 (89,970,451)  3,092,442              16,652,296

			

							

				
                                                                                              • ANNUAL REPORT  89

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

13. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(a) In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are required,
        which include the following:-

		  (i) estimated selling price of table eggs, day-old chicks, broilers and spent hen;

		  (ii) estimated number of day-old chicks produced by each layer breeder and broiler breeder and table
            eggs to be produced by layers;

		  (iii) estimated hatchability rate of the hatching eggs and mortality rate of live birds;

		  (iv) estimated feed consumption rate and feed costs and other estimated costs to be incurred for the
            remaining life of the live birds and at the points of sales;

		  (v) Discount rate of 11.97% (2022: 15.39%)

(b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
        hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
        within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model.

    Type      Description of valuation      Significant             Inter-relationship between
    Breeders   technique and inputs          unobservable             significant unobservable
               used                          inputs                   inputs and fair value
    Layers                                                            measurement
              Discounted cash flows:        • Estimated selling
                The valuation method          price of the          The estimated fair value would
                considers the estimated       agriculture produce.  increase/(decrease) if:-
                quantity of day-old chicks
                to be produced over         • Estimated feed        • the estimated selling price of
                the life of the breeders,     costs and overheads     the agriculture produce were
                taking into account the       expected to incur       higher/(lower).
                mortality rate of breeders    throughout the life
                and the estimated             cycle.                • the estimated feed costs and
                feed costs and other                                  overheads were (higher)/
                overheads.                                            lower.

              Discounted cash flows:        • Estimated selling     The estimated fair value would
                The valuation method          price of the          increase/(decrease) if:-
                considers the expected        agriculture produce.
                quantity and price                                  • the estimated selling price of
                of table eggs to be         • Estimated feed          the agriculture produce were
                produced over the life        costs and overheads     higher/(lower).
                of the layers, taking into    expected to incur
                account layers’ mortality     throughout the life   • the estimated feed costs and
                rate.                         cycle.                  overheads were (higher)/
                                                                      lower
90 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

13. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

        (b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
                 hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
                 within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model. (Cont’d)

Type      Description of valuation       Significant                 Inter-relationship between
Broilers   technique and inputs           unobservable                 significant unobservable
           used                           inputs                       inputs and fair value
Hatching                                                               measurement
 eggs
          Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
Prawns      The valuation method           price of the broilers at  increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the present          the points of sale.
            value of net cash flows                                  • the estimated selling price of
            from sales of broilers       • Estimated feed              the broilers at the points of
            less estimated feed costs      costs and overheads         sale were higher/(lower).
            and overheads incurred         expected to incur
            to the point of sale and       throughout the life       • the estimated feed costs and
            taking into account the        cycle.                      overheads were (higher)/
            mortality rate of broilers.                                lower.

          Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            The valuation method           price of the day-old      increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the present          chicks at the points of
            value of net cash flows        sale.                     • the estimated selling price
            from sales of day-old                                      of the day-old chicks at the
            chicks less estimated        • Estimated hatching          points of sale were higher/
            hatching costs and             costs and overheads         (lower).
            overheads incurred to          expected to incur
            the points of sale and         throughout the            • the estimated hatching costs
            taking into account            hatching process.           and overheads were (higher)/
            the hatchability rate of                                   lower.
            hatching eggs.

          Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            The valuation method           price of the prawns at    increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the expected         the points of sale.
            quantity of prawns to be                                 • the estimated selling price of
            harvested and expected       • Estimated feed costs        the prawns at the points of
            selling prices, taking         and other variable          sale were higher/(lower).
            into account the prawns’       costs expected to
            mortality rate.                incur up to the points    • the estimated feed costs and
                                           of harvest.                 variable costs were (higher)/
                                                                       lower.
                                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT  91

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

13. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(c) The key assumptions used for the fair value calculations are as follows:-

		                                                                                   The Group
					
					                                                                          2023             2022

                                                                               RM               RM

			 Breeders			

			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks (parent stock)(per bird)		 14.00 - 17.00      12.35 - 14.79
                                                                                                       1.20
			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks (broiler)(per bird)		                1.40
                                                                                            10.33 - 10.88
			 Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		 10.26 - 11.97

						

			 Broilers			

			 Estimated selling price of broilers at the points of sale (per KG)		 6.81 - 7.15        7.00 - 7.05

						                                                                                      1.87 - 2.10

			                                                                                               35.28
                                                                                                   11.24
			 Hatching eggs			
                                                                                                    0.39
			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks at the points of sale (per bird) 1.80 - 2.10         11.99

						

			

			 Prawns			

			 Estimated selling price of prawns at the points of sale (per KG)                 -

			 Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per KG)                                -

						

			

			 Layers			

			 Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			                                  0.40

			 Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		                      12.70

						

(d) Reasonable possible changes at the reporting date to one of the key assumptions, holding other
        assumptions constant, would have affected the fair value of biological assets by the amounts shown
        below.

		The Group

		                                                                             Increase/(decrease) in fair

		                                                                             value of biological assets

					                                                                          2023             2022

					                                                                          RM               RM

			

			 Breeders			

			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks (broiler)(per bird)			

			 - increase by 10%			                                                       1,339,498    1,030,682

			 - decrease by 10%                                  		 (1,339,498) (1,030,682)

			

			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks (parent)(per bird)			

			 - increase by 10%                                  		                      24,000           18,000

			 - decrease by 10%                                  		                      (24,000)         (18,000)

			

			 Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)			

			 - increase by 10%			                                                       (148,000)        (120,000)

			 - decrease by 10%                                  		                      148,000          120,000

						

			

			 Broilers			

			 Estimated selling price of broilers at the points of sale (per KG)			

			 - increase by 10%                                  		                      262,812          200,293

			 - decrease by 10%                                  		                      (262,812)        (200,293)

						
92 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

13. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(d) Reasonable possible changes at the reporting date to one of the key assumptions, holding other
        assumptions constant, would have affected the fair value of biological assets by the amounts shown
        below. (Cont’d)

		The Group

		                                                                   Increase/(decrease) in fair

		                                                                   value of biological assets

					                                                                              2023             2022

					                                                                              RM               RM

			

			 Hatching eggs			

			 Estimated selling price of day-old chicks at the points of sale

				 (per bird)			

			 - increase by 10%			                                                           177,118          110,456

			 - decrease by 10%			                                                           (177,118)        (110,456)

							

			

			 Prawns			

			 Estimated selling price of prawns at the points of sale (per KG)			

			 - increase by 10%                  		                                                -          76,718

			 - decrease by 10%                  		                                                -          (76,718)

							

			 Layers			

			 Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			

			 - increase by 10%                  		                                          480,077           347,918
                                                                                                    (347,918)
			 - decrease by 10%                  		                                          (480,077)

							

		   In respect of other variables, a reasonable possible change in the assumptions used will not result in any
     material change to the fair value of the biological assets.

14. TRADE RECEIVABLES

		                                                                                       The Group
					
					                                                                              2023             2022

                                                                                   RM               RM

        Trade receivables:-                                          49,133,688               49,863,556
        - third parties			                                            1,060,763                1,535,617
        - related parties			
						                                                               50,194,451               51,399,173
						                                                               (1,254,507)              (2,671,213)
        Less: Allowance for impairment losses			
						                                                               48,939,944               48,727,960
						
						                                                                2,671,213                2,634,079
						                                                                      9,575                   (7,780)
        Allowance for impairment losses:-
        At 1 January			                                                  169,685                  280,963
        Exchange differences			                                         (492,414)                (236,049)
        Addition during the financial year			                        (1,103,552)
        Reversal during the financial year			                                                               -
        Write-off during the financial year			                        1,254,507
						                                                                                         2,671,213
        At 31 December			
						

The Group’s normal trade credit terms range from 30 to 90 (2022 – 30 to 90) days.
                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT                    93

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

15. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENT

		                                                                    The Group/The Company
					
					                                                                 2023       2022
						
                                                                      RM         RM
        Money market fund, at fair value 			
						                                                                5,781,971  8,044,790

   The money market fund represents investment in highly liquid money market instruments and deposits with a
   financial institution in Malaysia which is redeemable with one (1) day notice at known amounts of cash, and are
   subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

   The fair value of the money market funds is determined by reference to statements provided by the respective
   financial institution, with which the investments were entered into.

 

16. OTHER RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS

						

		                                              The Group             The Company

			                                       2023             2022       2023       2022

			                                       RM               RM         RM         RM

   Other receivables:-

   - third parties                        3,102,768   5,553,316       622,295    615,901

   - related parties                      3,729,971        163,779    4,400        3,100

   - goods and services tax recoverable   10,246           20,358           -                -

			

			                                       6,842,985   5,737,453       626,695    619,001

   Deposits                               3,530,589   2,933,806             -                -

   Prepayments                            7,681,667   5,161,723       281,590    105,986

   Less: Allowance for impairment losses  (397,420)        (448,710)        -                -

			

			                                       17,657,821  13,384,272      908,285    724,987

			

						

   Allowance for impairment losses:-					

   At 1 January                           448,710          30,765           -                -

   Exchange in foreign exchange           23,398               (165)        -                -

   Acquisition of a subsidiary                  -          465,646          -                -

   Addition during the financial year           -          117,047          -                -

   Reversal during the financial year     (74,688)         (164,583)        -                -

			

   At 31 December                         397,420          448,710          -                -

			

   The amount owing by related parties is unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amount owing
   is to be settled in cash.

			
94 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

17. AMOUNTS OWING BY/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES

					

		                                                                 The Company

					                                                              2023       2022

					                                                              RM         RM

							

Amount Owing by Subsidiaries					

Current 					

Non-trade balances			 87,687,073                                              93,100,445

Allowance for impairment losses			                                 (969,541)        -

						

						 86,717,532                                                             93,100,445

						

							

Allowance for impairment losses:-					

At 1 January 			                                                         -          -

Addition during the financial year			                              969,541          -

						

At 31 December			                                                  969,541          -

						

							

Amount Owing to Subsidiaries					

Current 					

Non-trade balances			 (11,104,447) (7,177,682)

						

					                                                              		

Included in the amount owing by subsidiaries is a sum of RM11,873,000 (2022 – RM12,573,000), which is

unsecured advances granted to subsidiary. The advances carry interest at rate ranging from 4.97% to 5.49%

(2022 – 4.31% to 5.70%) per annum and are repayable on demand.

        All other amounts are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amounts
        owing are to be settled in cash.
 

18. DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS

The deposits which represent overnight placements with licensed banks of the Group at the end of the reporting
period bore effective interest at rates ranging from 0.03% to 2.80% (2022 – 0.03% to 2.55%) per annum.

19. SHARE CAPITAL

			                                               The Group/The Company
			
			                                    2023       2022             2023       2022
                                                                               RM
                                        Number of Shares           RM

Issued and Fully Paid-Up					

		

Ordinary Shares					

		

At 1 January                           630,718,800 630,718,800 158,968,786 158,968,786

New shares issued under exercise

		 of warrants 2018/2023                     160                -        144        -

			

At 31 December                         630,718,960 630,718,800 158,968,930 158,968,786

			
                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT                             95

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

19. SHARE CAPITAL (CONT’D)

(a) The holders of ordinary shares (except treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as and when
        declared by the Company, and are entitled to one vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company.
        The ordinary shares have no par value.

(b) During the financial year, the Company issued 160 new ordinary shares from the exercise of warrants
        2018/2023 at the exercise price of RM0.90 per warrant which amounted to RM144.

		   The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
     Company.

20. TREASURY SHARES

        During the financial year, the Company has purchased Nil (2022 – 5,296,100) of its issued ordinary shares from
        the open market at an average price of RM Nil (2022 – RM0.57) per share. The total consideration paid for the
        purchase was Nil (2022 – RM3,020,203) including transaction costs. The ordinary shares purchased are held
        as treasury shares in accordance with Section 127(6) of the Companies Act 2016.

        Of the total 630,718,960 (2022 - 630,718,800) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares at the end of the
        reporting period, 9,370,200 (2022 - 9,370,200) ordinary shares are held as treasury shares by the Company.

21. RESERVES

						

		                                          The Group           The Company

			                                   2023             2022     2023        2022

			                                   RM               RM       RM          RM

Foreign exchange translation reserve  (433,526) (8,138,999)           -           -

Retained profits                      277,893,379 216,393,640   42,579,312  49,098,161

			

			                                   277,459,853 208,254,641   42,579,312  49,098,161

			

							

Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve

The foreign exchange translation reserve arose from the translation of the financial statements of foreign
subsidiaries whose functional currencies are different from the Group’s presentation currency.

22. BANK BORROWINGS

						

		                                          The Group           The Company

			                                   2023             2022     2023        2022

			                                   RM               RM       RM          RM

Long-term borrowings:-					

- term loans, secured                 5,450,845   6,285,530           -           -

							

Short-term borrowings:-					

- bank overdrafts, secured            4,258,686   6,016,378           -           -

- bankers’ acceptance, secured        25,149,952  22,241,504          -           -

- bankers’ acceptance, unsecured      14,022,000  13,000,000          -           -

- term loans, secured                 868,673          843,524        -           -

							

			                                   44,299,311  42,101,406          -           -

			

Total borrowings                      49,750,156  48,386,936          -           -

			
96 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

22. BANK BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
							

        The bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

(a) a fixed charge over certain subsidiaries’ landed properties;

(b) a corporate guarantee provided by the Company; and

(c) a joint and several guarantee provided by certain directors of the Company.

The Group has complied with the financial covenants.

The repayment terms of the term loans are as follows:-

Term loan 1 at BLR - 0.70%             Repayable in 180 monthly instalments of RM16,218 each, effective from
 per annum                             March 2017.

Term loan 2 at CFR + 1.75%             Repayable in 120 monthly instalments of RM10,519 each, effective from
 per annum                             July 2018.

Term loan 3 at CFR + 1.75%             Repayable in 120 monthly instalment of RM10,519 each effective from
 per annum                             August 2018.

Term loan 4 at CFR + 1%                Repayment in 120 monthly instalments of RM55,802 each, effective on the
 per annum                             first day of the month following the full release of the term loan or the expiry
                                       of the initial Availability Period.
		

The bankers’ acceptance of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rates ranging
from 3.80% to 4.74% (2022 – 2.93% to 5.35%) per annum.

The bank overdrafts of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest rates ranging from
3.85% to 8.75% (2022 – 3.60% to 7.57%) per annum.

The term loans of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate ranging from 4.55%
to 5.20% (2022 – 4.30% to 4.84%) per annum.

23. LEASE LIABILITIES

		                                                                                     The Group
					
					                                                                            2023             2022

                                                                                 RM               RM

At 1 January			 16,917,678                                                                  19,002,926

Additions			                                                                     2,044,431  1,219,600

Changes due to reassessment of lease term			                                           -          (649,703)

Changes due to lease modification			                                             1,286,787              -

Interest expense recognised in profit or loss			                                 814,375          821,467

Repayment principal			 (2,839,142) (2,655,145)

Repayment of interest expense			                                                 (814,375)        (821,467)

					

At 31 December			 17,409,754                                                                16,917,678

					

							

Analysed by:-					

Current liabilities			                                                           3,851,827  3,407,367

Non-current liabilities			 13,557,927                                                       13,510,311

					

					 17,409,754                                                                            16,917,678

					

						
                                                                                • ANNUAL REPORT                      97

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

24. TRADE PAYABLES

		                                                                         The Group
					
					                                                                2023                       2022

                                                                     RM                         RM

        Trade payables:-					
        - third parties				 24,379,722 27,521,243
        - related parties				 10,474,722 13,746,064
						
						 34,854,444 41,267,307
						

The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 60 to 90 (2022 – 60 to 90) days.

25. OTHER PAYABLES, DEPOSITS AND ACCRUALS

						

		                                         The Group                 The Company

			                                  2023             2022           2023                       2022

			                                  RM               RM             RM                         RM

Other payables:-

- third parties                      2,408,168  2,094,697            200,284                        169

Deposits                             2,459,394  2,328,541                  -                          -

Accruals            18,138,588                  15,168,966           546,765                    538,466

				

				                23,006,150                  19,592,204           747,049                    538,635

				

							

26. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

(a) The provision for employee benefits consist of the followings:-

		                                                                         The Group
					
					                                                                2023                       2022

                                                                     RM                         RM

			 Defined benefit plans				                                        1,592,964                  1,226,648

								

		The Group provides benefits for its employees who has reached the retirement age of 55 based on the
                 provisions of Perppu No. 2/2022 on Job Creation which was later passed into Law No. 6 in 2023. The
                 employee benefits liability is unfunded.

		   These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk,
     interest rate risk and investment risk.

		   The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the defined benefit plans were carried out
     by KKA Nandi and Sutana and PT Jasa Aktuaria Praptasentosa Gunajasa, a member of Institute of
     Actuaries Indonesia.
98 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

26. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONT’D)

(b) The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for defined
        benefit plans and its components:-

		                                                                              The Group
					
					                                                                     2023             2022

                                                                          RM               RM

		  At 1 January				                                                      1,226,648        856,540

		Recognised in Profit or Loss					

		  - current service cost				                                            243,124          174,845

		  - past service cost				                                               40,159               449

		  - interest cost				                                                   80,920           85,333

		  - gain on settlement 				                                             (29,862)         (22,735)

		  - adjustment due to change in benefit attribution period 		                 -          (293,353)

							

							                                                                   334,341          (55,461)

		Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income					

		  Remeasurement of defined benefit plans:-					

		  - effect of changes in financial assumptions			                       15,324           11,603

		  - effect of experience adjustment			                                  9,198            (48,487)

		  - adjustment due to change	i	n benefit attribution period 		                -          (12,982)

							

							                                                                   24,522           (49,866)

		Other 						

		  Exchange differences				                                              77,563           (11,158)

		  Utilisation during the financial year			                              (70,110)         (66,555)

		  Acquisition of a subsidiary 			                                             -          553,148

							

		  At 31 December				                                                    1,592,964  1,226,648

							

(c) Principal actuarial assumptions at the end of the reporting period:-

		                                                                              The Group
					
					                                                                     2023             2022

                                                                          RM               RM

		  Discount rate				                                                           7%               7%

		  Salary growth rate				                                                    10%          10%

		  Normal retirement age				                                                   55               55

							

							

		  Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
                                                                     • ANNUAL REPORT                              99

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

26. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONT’D)

(d) Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions,
        holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit plans by the amounts
        shown below:-

		                                                             The Group
					
					                                                    2023             2022

                                                         RM               RM

     Discount rate						

		   Increase of 1%				                                  (36,720)         (46,553)

		   Decrease of 1%				                                  42,224           51,880

							

		Salary growth rate						

		   Increase of 1%				                                  38,110           46,917

		   Decrease of 1%				                                  (33,973)         (43,115)

							

		   Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan,
     it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.

		   At 31 December 2023, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit plans was 19.76 years
     (2022 – 18.86) years.

27. REVENUE

						

		                                   The Group           The Company

			                            2023             2022     2023             2022

			                            RM               RM       RM               RM

Revenue from Contracts

		 with Customers						

Recognised at a point in time						

Cages rental income            12,440           8,555          -                                           -

Dividend income                      -                -  16,851,000  35,098,164

Management fee		                     -                -  366,000          366,000

Trading sales		                980,333,750 885,374,956         -                                           -

Transportation income		        403,400          361,750        -                                           -

					

					                          980,749,590 885,745,261   17,217,000  35,464,164

					

							

Revenue from Other Sources						

        Interest income        592,283          352,928  489,823          463,786
					

(a) The information on the disaggregation of revenue is disclosed in Note 38 to the financial statements.

(b) The information about the performance obligations in contracts with customers is summarised below:

		Sale of Good (Credit sales)

		   Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Company has transferred control of the goods to
     the customer, being when the goods have been delivered to the customer and upon its acceptance.
     Following delivery, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell the
     goods, and bear the risk of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.
100 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

27. REVENUE (CONT’D)

(b) The information about the performance obligations in contracts with customers is summarised below:
        (cont’d)

		Sale of Good (Credit sales) (cont’d)

		   A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration
     is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.

		   The credit period is ranging from 30 days to 90 days from the invoice date. There is no significant
     financing component in the selling price as the sales are made on the normal credit terms not exceeding
     12 months.

		   There is no warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.

		Sales of Goods (Cash sales)

		   Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Company has transferred control of the goods to
     the customer, being at the point the customer purchases the goods at the retail outlets. Payment for the
     transactions is the due immediately at the point the customer purchases the goods and takes delivery in
     outlet.

		   There is no significant financing component in the selling price as the sales are made on a cash term.

		Transportation services

		   Revenue is recognised when service has been rendered as this represents the point in time which the
     right to consideration becomes unconditional, as only passage of time is required before the payment is
     due.

		   The credit period is 90 days from the invoice date. There is no significant financing component in the
     selling price as the sales are made on the normal credit terms not exceeding 12 months.

		   There is no warranty provided to the customers on the services rendered.

(c) The information of the revenue from other source is summarised below:-

		Interest income

		   Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

28. NET IMPAIRMENT (GAINS) / LOSSES ON FINANCIAL ASSETS

						

		                                              The Group                      The Company

			                                       2023             2022                2023          2022

			                                       RM               RM                  RM            RM

Impairment losses for the financial year					

- trade receivables (Note 14)             169,685          280,963                   -                       -

- other receivables (Note 16)		                 -          117,047                   -                       -

- amount owing by subsidiaries (Note 17)        -                -             969,541                       -

Reversal of impairment losses for the

		 financial year						

- trade receivables (Note 14)             (492,414)        (236,049)                 -                       -

- other receivables (Note 16)		           (74,688)         (164,583)                 -                       -

						

						                                    (397,417)        (2,622)             969,541                       -

						
                                                                                   • ANNUAL REPORT  101

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

29. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION

						

		                                                The Group             The Company

			                                         2023             2022       2023       2022

			                                         RM               RM         RM         RM

        Profit before taxation is arrived						
		 at after charging/(crediting):-						

Auditor’s remuneration:-						

- current financial year                    599,742          506,510    89,000       88,000

Amortisation of intangible assets           301,642          410,650          -          -

Bad debts written off                       187,615          305,308          -          -

Depreciation of investment properties       817,994          842,316          -          -

Depreciation of property, plant

		 and equipment                            25,904,519  24,808,490      160,847    160,924

Management fee                              17,701           12,600           -          -

Allowance for impairment losses						

		 on amount owing by subsidiary		                -                -    969,541          -

Impairment loss on investment 						

		 in a subsidiary		                              -                -    100,000    6,444,262

Allowance for stock						

		 obsolescence                             1,469            11,679           -          -

Allowance for impairment losses 						

		 on receivables                           169,685          398,010          -          -

Impairment losses on receivables

		 no longer required 		                    (567,102)        (400,632)        -          -

Directors’ remuneration (Note 36)           4,976,582   3,664,605       447,600    346,400

Dividend income:-						

- subsidiaries                                    -                - (16,851,000) (24,000,000)

- associates 		                                   -                -          - (11,098,164)

Changes in fair value of biological assets  (5,468,834) (3,092,442)           -          -

Gain on disposal of property,						

		 plant and equipment		                    (37,722)         (449,074)        -          -

Gain on disposal of 						

		 investment properties		                  (1,379,446) (5,979,315)           -          -

Interest expense on financial liabilities

		 not at fair value through profit or loss:-					

		 - bank overdrafts                        36,642           140,137          -          -

		 - bankers’ acceptance                    1,420,472        965,743          -          -

		 - lease liabilities                      814,375          821,467          -          -

		 - revolving credit		                           -          195,051          -    195,051

		 - term loans                             304,413          282,138          -          -

		 - other interest                         79,167           40,833           -          -

Interest income						

- subsidiaries		                                  -                -    (483,429)  (459,584)

- short-term investment 		                  (35,688)         (1,891)    (35,688)     (1,891)

- others         		                         (556,595)        (351,037)  (6,394)      (4,202)

Gain on bargain purchase                          -     (4,498,651)           -          -

(Gain)/loss on foreign exchange:-						

- realised			                               (711,568)        (575,337)        -          -

- unrealised 		                             1,376            (1,681)          -          -

Fair value gain:-						

- short-term investment 		                  (201,493)        (42,449)   (201,493)  (42,449)

Hiring of plant and equipment                     -          3,600            -          -

Lease expenses:-						

- short-term leases                         14,400           14,400           -          -

- low value assets                          4,993            4,993            -          -

						
102 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

29. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION (CONT’D)

						

		                                                The Group             The Company

			                                         2023             2022       2023       2022

			                                         RM               RM         RM         RM

        Profit before taxation is arrived						
		 at after charging/(crediting):- (cont’d)

Lease income:-						

- rental income from investment properties  (197,242)        (512,400)        -          -

- sublease of right-of-use assets           (19,820)         (44,720)         -          -

Management fee                                    -                -    (366,000)  (366,000)

Property, plant and equipment written off   38,016           260,542          -          -

Rental income on:-						

- property, plant and equipment             (448,420)        (275,246)        -          -

Rental expense on:-						

- office  		                                52,517           52,517           -          -

- retail stores		                           2,479,412   2,378,508             -          -

- warehouse 		                              3,600            3,600            -          -

- ponds   		                                      -          419,069          -          -

- workers’ rooms                            78,680           75,840           -          -

- equipment 		                              266,068          249,014          -          -

Share of profits in an equity

		 accounted associate                      (4,779,040) (4,521,456)           -          -

Staff cost:-						

- short-term employee benefits              77,263,779  65,976,872      528,128    465,342

- defined contribution plan                 5,392,695   5,164,510       63,921       57,821

						

30. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

						

		                                                The Group             The Company

			                                         2023             2022       2023       2022

			                                         RM               RM         RM         RM

Income tax:-						

- Malaysian tax		                           11,368,291  9,166,491             -          -

- Foreign tax 		                            10,399,559  9,727,631             -          -

						

						                                      21,767,850  18,894,122            -          -

Overprovision in

		 previous financial year:-						

- Malaysian tax		                           (26,578)         (559,445)        -          -

						

							

Real property gain tax		                    54,000      1,541,300             -          -

						

							

Deferred tax (Note 11):-						

- origination and reversal of						

			 temporary differences                   2,623,448   (1,876,361)     (152,008)    20,138

- (Over)/underprovision in 						

			 previous financial years		              (333,009)        246,589    19,359       69,830

							

							                                     2,290,439   (1,629,772)     (132,649)    89,968

							

							                                     24,085,711  18,246,205      (132,649)    89,968

							
                                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT        103

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

30. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)

A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to the profit before taxation at the statutory tax rate to income

tax expense at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-

						

		                                      The Group                                      The Company

			                               2023             2022       2023                                2022

			                               RM               RM         RM                                  RM

Profit before taxation            107,441,000  81,371,526     15,095,703                         27,668,769

						

							

Tax at statutory tax rate of 24%  25,785,839   19,529,166     3,622,969                          6,640,505

							

Tax effects of:-						

Deferred tax recognised at 						

		 different tax rates		          (912,649)        (300,098)                           -                -

Non-taxable income		              (5,338,065) (10,977,237) (4,132,581) (8,462,787)

Non-deductible expenses           5,034,153    9,013,175      357,604                            1,842,420

Deferred tax assets not recognised 					

		 during the financial year		    82,922           (101,369)                           -                -

(Over)/underprovision in the 						

		 previous financial year:-						

- current tax 		                  (26,578)         (559,445)                           -                -

- deferred tax		                  (333,009)        246,589                             19,359       69,830

Real porperty gain tax            54,000       1,541,300                               -                -

Others  		                        (260,902)        (145,876)                           -                -

						

Income tax expense for the						

		 financial year                 24,085,711   18,246,205     (132,649)                             89,968

						

							

Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2022 - 24%) of the estimated

assessable profit for the financial year. The taxation of other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in

the respective jurisdiction.

31. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

		                                                                                     The Group
					
					                                                         2023                                2022

                                                              RM                                  RM

Items that Will Not be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss				

Remeasurement of defined benefit plans			                                              (19,127)     39,094

								

							

Items that Will be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss				

Foreign exchange translation:-						

- changes during the financial year			                        7,719,649                          (4,722,126)

								

								                                                      7,700,522                          (4,683,032)

								

							

							
104 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

32. EARNINGS PER SHARE

(a) Basic Earnings Per Share

		   The basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit attributable to owners of the
     Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue after adjusting for treasury shares
     during the financial year.

		                                                                                     The Group
					
					                                                                           2023              2022

                                                                                RM                RM

			Profit after taxation attributable to the owners of the Company (RM)		 83,266,067 63,106,230

					

							

		   Weighted average number of ordinary shares:-					

		   Issued ordinary shares at 1 January			 630,718,800 630,718,800

		   Warrant 2018/2023 exercise 			                                                    160               -

		   Effect of treasury shares held 			                                         (7,204,804) (7,204,804)

					

		   Weighted average number of shares at 31 December		 623,514,156 623,513,996

					

		   Basic earnings per share (sen)			                                          13.35             10.12

					

(b) Diluted Earnings Per Share

		   The exercise of warrants was anti-dilutive as its exercise price was higher than the average market price
     of the Company’s ordinary shares during the current financial year. Accordingly, the exercise of warrants
     had been ignored in the calculation of dilutive earnings per shares.

33. DIVIDENDS

		                                             2023                                    2022

			                                     Dividend per Amount of                  Dividend per  Amount of

			                                     share        Dividend                   share         Dividend

		                                      sen          RM                         sen               RM

							

Dividend paid in respect of the 						

		 financial year ended 						

		 31 December 2022:-						

		 - final single tier dividend, 						

				 on ordinary shares                      3.50    21,747,201                        -                 -

							

Dividend paid in respect of the 						

		 financial year ended 						

		 31 December 2021:-						

		 - final single tier dividend,

			 on ordinary shares                         -                             -       1.25     7,805,317

								

								                                     3.50    21,747,201                      1.25     7,805,317

								

							

At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 4.25 sen per ordinary share in respect of the

current financial year will be proposed for shareholders' approval. The financial statements for the current

financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be

accounted for as a liability in the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
                                                                                             • ANNUAL REPORT  105

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

34. ACQUISITION OF A SUBSIDIARY

In the previous financial period, the Group acquired 99% of equity interests in PT Bonanza Pratama Abadi for
a cash consideration of RM33.6 million.

The following summaries the consideration transferred, and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

						                                                                                             The Group

						                                                                                             2022

						                                                                                             RM

				

Property,plant and equipment				 11,713,311

Intangible assets, representing land rights				                                                    4,165,162

Inventories				                                                                                    8,728,756

Trade receivables				                                                                              3,671,432

Other receivables, deposits and prepayments				                                                    1,280,846

Cash and bank balances				 12,240,470

Deferred tax liabilities				                                                                       (592,455)

Trade payables				                                                                                 (441,826)

Other payables, deposits and accruals				 (1,583,934)

Employee benefits liability				                                                                    (553,148)

Current tax liabilities				                                                                        (131,816)

						

Fair value of net identifiable asset acquired				 38,496,798

Less: Non-controlling interests, measured at the non-controlling interest 				

			proportionate share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets			                         (384,968)

Less: Gain on bargain purchase				 (4,498,651)

						

Total purchase consideration, to be settled by cash				 33,613,179

Less: Cash and bank balances of subsidiary acquired				 (12,240,470)

						

Net cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiary				 21,372,709

						

				

(a) The business combinations resulted in a bargain purchase transaction because the fair value of asset

     acquired and liabilities assumed exceeded the total of the fair value of consideration paid.

(b) The subsidiary has contributed revenue of RM38,618,958 and profit after taxation of RM1,880,047 to the
        Group since the date of acquisition.

		   There were no acquisitions of new subsidiaries during the current financial period.

35. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

(a) The cash disbursed for the purchase of property, plant and equipment is as follows:-

						

		                                      The Group          The Company

			                               2023             2022    2023                                    2022

			                               RM               RM      RM                                      RM

		   Cost of property, plant and

			 equipment purchased (Note 7)  35,714,645  20,429,699   1,850                                   9,247

		   Less: additions of new lease 					

			 liabilities (Note (c) below)  (2,044,431) (1,219,600)                                 -              -

				

				                              33,670,214  19,210,099   1,850                                   9,247

				
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                 106 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

35. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows: -

							                                                                                     Bankers’  Lease            Term

							                                                                                     Acceptance Liabilities     Loans     Total

		The Group					 RM                                                                                   RM               RM        RM

						

		2023						

						

		  At 1 January 2023                                                                       		 35,241,504 16,917,678 7,129,054 59,288,236

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows							

		  Proceeds from drawdown			 3,930,448                                                                             -         - 3,930,448

		  Repayment of principal			                                                                         - (2,839,142) (809,536) (3,648,678)

						

						 3,930,448 (2,839,142) (809,536)                                                                                           281,770

		Non-cash Changes							

		  Acquisition of new leases (Note 23)			                                                            - 2,044,431             -         -

		  Reassessments/Modifications of leases (Note 23)			                                                - 1,286,787             -         -

						

						                                                                                                - 3,331,218             -         -

						

		  At 31 December 2023			 39,171,952 17,409,754 6,319,518 59,570,006

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

35. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

						                                                 Bankers’                                         Lease      Revolving     Term

						                                                 Acceptance Liabilities                                      Credit        Loans     Total

		The Group				 RM                                                                                      RM         RM            RM        RM

						

		2022						

						

		  At 1 January 2022		 25,785,255 19,002,926 6,000,000 7,952,587 58,740,768

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows						

		  Proceeds from drawdown		 9,456,249                                                                         -              -         - 9,456,249

		  Repayment of principal		                                                                         - (2,655,145) (6,000,000) (823,533) (9,478,678)

						

					 9,456,249 (2,655,145) (6,000,000) (823,533)                                                                                          (22,429)

		Non-cash Changes						

		  Acquisition of new leases (Note 23)		                                                            - 1,219,600              -         - 1,219,600

		  Reassessments/Modifications of leases (Note 23)		                                                -  (649,703)             -         -  (649,703)

						

					                                                                                                -  569,897               -         -  569,897

					

		  At 31 December 2022		 35,241,504 16,917,678                                                                               - 7,129,054 59,288,236

					

                                                                                                                                                      • ANNUAL REPORT

                                                                                                                                                      107
108 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

35. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

    (b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

					                                                            Amount 		

					                                                            Owing To     Revolving

					                                                  Subsidiaries           Credit                     Total

		   The Company			 RM                                                        RM                         RM

				

		2023				

				

		   At 1 January 2023		                                         7,177,682               -               7,177,682

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows				

		   Increase in amount owing to subsidiaries		                  3,926,765               -               3,926,765

		   Repayment of borrowing principal		                                    -             -                      -

				

    			                                                          3,926,765               -               3,926,765

				

		   At 31 December 2023		 11,104,447                                                    -               11,104,447

				

				

					                                                            Amount 		

					                                                            Owing To     Revolving

					                                                  Subsidiaries           Credit                     Total

		   The Company			 RM                                                        RM                         RM

				

     2022				

				

		   At 1 January 2022		                                         1,291,082    6,000,000                  7,291,082

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows				

		   Repayment to subsidiaries		                                 5,886,600               -               5,886,600

		   Repayment of borrowing principal		                                    -  (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

				

				                                                             5,886,600    (6,000,000)                (113,400)

				

		   At 31 December 2022		                                       7,177,682               -               7,177,682

				

    (c) The cash and cash equivalents comprise the followings:-

						

		                                            The Group                       The Company

			                                     2023                     2022         2023                       2022

			                                     RM                       RM           RM                         RM

		   Cash and bank balances             104,507,295              56,595,113   831,582                    626,326
                                         20,077,918               6,457,419            -                          -
		   Deposits with licensed banks         (4,258,686)            (6,016,378)           -                          -

		   Bank overdrafts                    120,326,527              57,036,154   831,582                    626,326

			

			

			
                                                                                         • ANNUAL REPORT  109

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

35. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

				

(d) The total cash outflows for leases as a leasee are as follows:-

						

		                                             The Group                     The Company

			                                      2023             2022               2023        2022

			                                      RM               RM                 RM          RM

		   Interest paid on lease liabilities  814,375          821,467                     -        -

		   Payment of lease liabilities        2,839,142  2,655,145                         -        -

		   Payment of short-term leases        14,400                      14,400           -        -

		   Payment of leases of low-value

			 assets                               4,993                       4,993            -        -

			

			                                      3,672,910  3,496,005                         -        -

			

36. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION

The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include executive directors and non-
executive directors of the Company and certain members of senior management of the Group and of the
Company.

The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:-

(a) Directors

						

		                                             The Group                     The Company

			                                      2023             2022               2023        2022

			                                      RM               RM                 RM          RM

		Directors of the Company					

     		

		Executive Directors					

     		

		   Short-term employee benefits:-				

		   - fees                              75,180                      69,180  66,900       60,900

		   - salaries, bonuses and other

				 benefits                            3,231,488  2,157,945                         -        -

							

					                                    3,306,668  2,227,125                66,900       60,900

		   Defined contribution plan           298,547          204,848                     -        -

					

					                                    3,605,215  2,431,973                66,900       60,900

					

							

		Non-executive Directors					

     		

		   Short-term employee benefits:-

		   - fees                              399,060          303,860            290,700     285,500

		   - other benefits                          -                     -       90,000            -

					

					                                    399,060          303,860            380,700     285,500

					

					                                    4,004,275  2,735,833                447,600     346,400

					

							
110 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

36. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION (CONT’D)

The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:- (Cont’d)

(a) Directors (Cont’d)

						

		                                            The Group                        The Company

			                                     2023             2022                  2023            2022

			                                     RM               RM                    RM              RM

		Directors of the Subsidiaries					

     		

		Executive Directors					

     		

		   Short-term employee benefits:-				

		   - fees                             2,040            2,040                       -                        -

		   - salaries, bonuses and other

				 benefits                           897,630          858,362                     -                        -

							

					                                   899,670          860,402                     -                        -

		   Defined contribution plan          72,637           68,370                      -                        -

					

					                                   972,307          928,772                     -                        -

					

		   Total directors’ remuneration

			 (Note 29)                           4,976,582        3,664,605             447,600         346,400

					

							

37. SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

(a) Subsidiaries

		   The subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

(b) Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances

		   Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also

     carried out the following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:-

						

		                                            The Group                        The Company

			                                     2023             2022                  2023            2022

			                                     RM               RM                    RM              RM

		Subsidiaries:-

		   - accounting fee                         -                             -  24,000                24,000
                                                                                                    (53,400)
		   - advisory fee income                    -                             -  (53,400)        (24,000,000)

		   - dividend income                        -                             - (16,851,000)             9,193
                                                                                                   (459,584)
		   - purchase on goods                      -                             -  10,827              (366,000)

		   - interest income                        -                             -  (483,429)             (51,411)
                                                                                                      (1,049)
		   - management income                      -                             -  (366,000)
                                                                                               (11,098,164)
		   - service income                         -                             -  (67,370)                       -
                                                                                                              -
		   - sundry income                          -                             -        -                        -

							

		Associate:-

		   - dividend income                        -                             -        -

		   - purchase of products             145,376,658 144,476,428                      -

		   - freight charges                  1,287,770        1,515,758                   -

		 - sales                                    -                             -        -
                                                                                 • ANNUAL REPORT                         111

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

37. SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONT’D)

(b) Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances (Cont’d)

		   Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also

     carried out the following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:- (Cont’d)

						

		                                                The Group             The Company

			                                         2023             2022       2023     2022

			                                         RM               RM         RM       RM

							

		   Companies in which the directors

			 and their close family members

			 have substantial financial interests:-

		   - advisory fee                         9,000            9,000      9,000        9,000

		   - purchase of products                 5,139,458        241,766          -        -

		   - sale of products                     (3,983,735)      (307,500)        -        -

		   - rental                               1,348,227        90,000           -        -

					

						

		   The significant outstanding balances of the related parties (including the allowance for impairment loss

     made) together with their terms and conditions are disclosed in the respective notes to the financial

     statements.

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS

        Operating segments are prepared in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group
        Managing Director, as the chief operating decision maker, in order to allocate resources to the segments and
        to assess their performances on a quarterly basis. For management purposes, the Group is organised into
        business units based on their products and services provided.

        The Group is organised into 5 main reportable segments as follows:-

        • Poultry Segment – involved in the rearing and production of poultry and poultry products.

        • Prawn Segment – involved in the rearing and production of prawns and seafood products.

        • Food Service Segment – involved in the supply and trading of food products and related services.

        • Retail Segment – involved in the trading of coldstorage products, poultry products and fresh produce.

        • Corporate Segment – involved in the provision of management services.

        (a) The Group Managing Director assesses the performances of the reportable segments based on their
                 profit before taxation. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s
                 accounting policies.

        (b) Each reportable segment’s assets are measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of the segments
                 other than investments in associates and tax-related assets.

        (c) Each reportable segment’s liabilities are measured based on all liabilities of the segments other than
                 borrowings and tax-related liabilities.

        (d) Assets, liabilities and expenses which are common and cannot be meaningfully allocated to the reportable
                 segments are presented under unallocated items. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets
                 and head office expenses.

        Transactions between reportable segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects
        of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                     112 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

		 					 Food

					                                                  Poultry        Prawn          Service     Retail           Corporate      Group

2023				                                               RM             RM             RM          RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue						

							

External revenue                                       111,213,530 93,502,736 24,073,689 751,959,635                         - 980,749,590

Inter-segment revenue                                  225,377,793 16,364,457            660 106,460,391 17,217,000 365,420,301

		

		                                                     336,591,323 109,867,193 24,074,349 858,420,026 17,217,000 1,346,169,891

		

Consolidation adjustments						 (365,420,301)

							

Consolidated revenue						 980,749,590

							

						

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation            24,539,228 9,492,369 2,982,786 71,400,109 (3,097,463) 105,317,029

Finance costs						 (2,655,069)

Share of results in an associate						 4,779,040

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 107,441,000

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                 551,561          45,130              -   1,052,536         191,467       1,840,694
        Interest income                                    (2,768)     (154,357)       (7,342)      (385,734)        (42,082)       (592,283)
        Interest expense on lease liabilities               3,151                                    798,615                         814,375
        Depreciation of investment properties                      -      12,609              -      817,994                  -      817,994
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                             -           -  19,053,146                   -  25,904,519
        Other material non-cash items                  5,596,586                     119,427         897,693          31,028      2,123,530
        Share of results in an associate                    7,403     1,104,332      (31,667)                       969,541       4,779,040
		                                                                 -    280,560               -                -  4,779,040
                                                                                  -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

					                                                 		                   Food 			

		    			                                             Poultry     Prawn    Service  Retail     Corporate  Group

2023                             		                   RM          RM       RM       RM         RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                                        121,854,625 66,688,094 14,224,073 321,736,402 15,762,482 540,265,676

Unallocated assets:-						

- investment in an associate						 33,423,527

- goodwill						                                                                                          380,224

- deferred tax assets						 1,778,698

- current tax assets						                                                                                397,952

							

Consolidated total assets						 576,246,077

							

							

Additions to non-current assets other than financial

		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment                         15,726,306  761,280  275,444 18,949,765  1,850 35,714,645

			

							

Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                                   31,548,057 9,772,875 1,621,935 61,859,324 4,849,522 109,651,713

Unallocated liabilities:-						

- deferred tax liabilities						 9,600,885

- lease liabilities						 17,409,754

- current tax liabilities						 8,472,246

- consolidated adjustments						 (447,999)

							                                                                                                                     • ANNUAL REPORT

Consolidated total liabilities						 144,686,599

							

                                                                                                                            113
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                                    114 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

		 					 Food

					                                                  Poultry        Prawn        Service      Retail           Corporate      Group

2022				                                               RM             RM           RM           RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue						

External revenue                                       105,051,327 57,791,677 22,468,640 700,433,617                        - 885,745,261

Inter-segment revenue                                  222,567,939 22,514,399      8,444 113,293,084 24,366,000 382,749,866

		

		                                                     327,619,266 80,306,076 22,477,084 813,726,701 24,366,000 1,268,495,127

		

Consolidation adjustments						 (382,749,866)

							

Consolidated revenue						 885,745,261

							

						

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation            8,917,031 4,957,736 2,903,210 67,044,511 27,330,337 111,152,825

Finance costs						 (2,445,369)

Share of results in an associate						 4,521,456

Consolidation adjustments						 (31,857,386)

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 81,371,526

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                 400,295        34,312               -      818,120        371,175       1,623,902
        Interest income                                    (4,498)    (101,317)       (7,045)      (232,083)         (7,985)       (352,928)
        Interest expense on lease liabilities               5,450                                   802,659                  -      821,467
        Depreciation of investment properties                      -    13,358               -      842,316                  -      842,316
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                           -            -  17,809,246           31,105     24,808,490
        Other material non-cash items                  5,892,984                    136,904         386,835                  -      107,980
        Share of results in an associate                 311,665       938,251     (709,034)                                     4,521,456
		                                                                 -   118,514               -                -  4,521,456

                                                                                -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

					                                		                  Food 			

		    			                            Poultry    Prawn    Service  Retail    Corporate  Group

2022                             		  RM         RM       RM       RM        RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                       98,263,366 52,408,110 16,723,304 285,497,838 18,361,119 471,253,737

Unallocated assets:-						

- investment in an associate						 28,644,487

- goodwill						                                                                       380,224

- deferred tax assets						 2,551,996

- current tax assets						 2,513,433

							

        Consolidated total assets						 505,343,877
							

        Additions to non-current assets other than financial 						
		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment        4,643,817  852,216  43,381 14,506,906  383,379 20,429,699

			
							

        Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                  33,566,581 8,593,589 2,387,138 62,903,341 5,117,115 112,567,764

Unallocated liabilities:-						

- deferred tax liabilities						 8,085,195

- lease liabilities						 16,917,678

- current tax liabilities						 7,617,185

- consolidated adjustments						 (2,094,669)

							                                                                                                   • ANNUAL REPORT

        Consolidated total liabilities						 143,093,153
							

                                                                                                          115
116 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

38. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Revenue is based on the country in which the customers are located.

Non-current assets are determined according to the country where these assets are located. The amounts of
non-current assets do not include financial instruments and deferred tax assets.

		                                            Revenue                             Non-current Assets

			                                     2023           2022                       2023             2022

Group                                   RM             RM                         RM               RM

							

Australia                                     -        1,138,164                        -                -

Indonesia                               197,857,777 192,159,789         52,573,490           51,640,527

Hong Kong                               1,193,596      429,118                          -                -

Japan                                   55,911,140  32,551,521                          -                -

Korea                                   3,093,880      2,146,153                        -                -

People’s Republic of China              4,042,379                    -                  -                -

Thailand                                4,334,547                    -                  -                -

Malaysia                                708,963,538 651,602,524 210,605,804 192,721,487

Taiwan                                  5,052,213      5,717,992                        -                -

Vietnam                                 300,520                      -                  -                -

			

			                                     980,749,590 885,745,261 263,179,294 244,362,014

			

							

MAJOR CUSTOMERS

There is no single customer that contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue.

39. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

		                                                                                      The Group
					
					                                                                             2023             2022

                                                                                  RM               RM

Purchase of property, plant and equipment			                                      4,309,706  9,067,772

					

 
40. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

No provisions are recognised on the following matters as it is not probable that a future sacrifice of economic
benefits will be required or the amount is not capable of reliable measurement:-

		                                                                                      The Group
					
					                                                                             2023             2022

                                                                                  RM               RM

Performance guarantee extended by a subsidiary to third parties		                 7,538,840  5,632,743

					

The performance guarantee is supported by a corporate guarantee provided by the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The activities of the Group and of the Company are exposed to a variety of market risk (including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk), credit
risk and liquidity risk. The overall financial risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
effects on the financial performance of the Group and of the Company.

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES

		  The policies in respect of the major areas of treasury activity are as follows:-

			 (a) Market Risk

				  (i) Foreign Currency Risk

					  The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than
       the respective functional currencies of entities within the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”),
       Japanese Yen (“JPY”) and Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing basis to ensure that the net
       exposure is at an acceptable level.

					  The exposure to foreign currency risk (a currency which is other than the functional currency of the entities within the Group) based on the
       carrying amounts of the financial instruments at the end of the reporting period is summarised below:-

					Foreign Currency Exposur

						                                   Indonesian Hong Kong                                  Japan     United States  Ringgit

						                                   Rupiah     Dollar                                     Yen       Dollar         Malaysia    Total

				The Group                            RM                                           RM       RM        RM             RM          RM

							

				2023							

							

				Financial Assets							

				   Trade receivables		               7,266,878                                        -           -  456,751        41,216,315  48,939,944

				   Short-term investment		                   -                                        -           -          -      5,781,971   5,781,971

				   Other receivables and deposits		  654,147                                          -           -          -      9,311,761   9,965,908                               • ANNUAL REPORT

				   Deposits with licensed banks		            -                                        -           -          -      20,077,918  20,077,918

				   Cash and bank balances		 55,918,248                                                306  14,103    651,457        47,923,181 104,507,295

							

							 63,839,273                                                                        306  14,103    1,108,208 124,311,146 189,273,036

							

                                                                                                                                                                            117
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                         118 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

				  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

					  Foreign Currency Exposure (Cont’d)

						                                            Indonesian     Hong Kong     Japan     United States  Ringgit

						                                            Rupiah         Dollar        Yen       Dollar         Malaysia     Total

				The Group                                     RM             RM            RM        RM             RM           RM

							

				2023							

							

				Financial Liabilities							

				   Trade payables		                           8,070,531                 -         -          -      26,783,913   34,854,444

				   Other payables, deposits and accruals		    5,057,528                 -         -  90,337         17,858,285   23,006,150

				   Bank borrowings:-							

				   - bank overdrafts		                        3,762,190                 -         -          -      496,496      4,258,686

				   - other borrowings		                                   -             -         -          -      45,491,470   45,491,470

				   Lease liabilities		                                    -             -         -          -      17,409,754   17,409,754

							

							 16,890,249                                                          -         -  90,337 108,039,918 125,020,504

							

				   Net financial assets		 46,949,024                                 306   14,103    1,017,871      16,271,228    64,252,532

				   Less: Net financial assets							                                                                             (63,220,252)
                                                                                                                       1,032,280
					 denominated in the respective							

					 entities’ functional currencies		 (46,949,024)                        -         -          - (16,271,228)

							

				   Currency exposure		                                    -          306   14,103    1,017,871                -

							

							
                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT  119

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

				  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

				Foreign Currency Exposure (Cont’d)

		                                        Indonesian United States Ringgit

		                                        Rupiah        Dollar   Malaysia   Total

      The Group                           RM            RM       RM         RM

				

				2022				

				

				Financial Assets				

				  Trade receivables                   9,213,808     296,713 39,217,439 48,727,960

				  Short-term investment                       -             - 8,044,790 8,044,790

				  Other receivables and deposits      523,225               - 7,678,966 8,202,191

				  Deposits with licensed banks                -             - 6,457,419 6,457,419

				  Cash and bank balances              17,148,643 (1,316,337) 40,762,807 56,595,113

							

							                                   26,885,676 (1,019,624) 102,161,421 128,027,473

							

				

				Financial Liabilities				

				  Trade payables                      9,147,583             - 32,119,724 41,267,307

				  Other payables, deposits

					 and accruals                        3,388,062             - 16,204,142 19,592,204

				  Bank borrowings:-				

				  - bank overdrafts                   3,868,843 		 2,147,535 6,016,378

				  - other borrowings                          -             - 42,370,558 42,370,558

				  Lease liabilities                           -             - 16,917,678 16,917,678

							

							                                   16,404,488            - 109,759,637 126,164,125

							

				

				  Net financial				

					 assets/(liabilities)                10,481,188 (1,019,624) (7,598,216) 1,863,348

				  Less: Net financial

					 (assets)/liabilities 				

					 denominated in the

					 respective entities’

					 functional currencies               (10,481,188)          - 7,598,216 (2,882,972)

							

				  Currency exposure                           - (1,019,624)             - (1,019,624)

							

				
120 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

				  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

				Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				   The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the
       foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

		                                                                 The Group

					                                                          2023           2022

					                                                          RM             RM

			

				Effects on Profit after Taxation 			

			

					  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                        - 77,000       - 77,000

						                                  – weakened by 10% 			  + 77,000       + 77,000

			

					  JPY/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                        - 1,000              -

						                                  – weakened by 10% 			  + 1,000              -

			

					Effects on Equity			

			

					  IDR/RM – strengthened by 10%			 + 3,460,000                         + 797,000

						                                  – weakened by 10% 			 - 3,460,000  - 797,000

			

					  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                        - 77,000       - 77,000

						                                  – weakened by 10% 			  + 77,000       + 77,000

			

					  JPY/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                        - 1,000              -

						                                  – weakened by 10% 			  + 1,000              -

										

			   (ii) Interest Rate Risk

				   Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
       will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The exposure to interest rate
       risk arises mainly from its long-term borrowings with variable rates. The Group and the
       Company adopts a policy of obtaining the most favourable interest rates available.

				   The fixed rate debt instruments of the Group and of the Company are not subject to interest
       rate risk since neither carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a
       change in market interest rates.

				   The exposure to interest rate risk based on the carrying amounts of the financial instruments
       at the end of the reporting period is disclosed in Note 22 to the financial statements.
                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT                                       121

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

				  (ii) Interest Rate Riskk (Cont’d)

				Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				   The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the
       interest rates at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

		                                                    The Group

					                                             2023           2022

					                                             RM             RM

			

					Effects on Profit after Taxation			

			

					  Increase of 25 basis points			             - 20,000       - 25,000

					  Decrease of 25 basis points			             + 20,000       + 25,000

			

					Effects on Equity			

			

					  Increase of 25 basis points			             - 20,000       - 25,000

					  Decrease of 25 basis points			             + 20,000       + 25,000

										

			

			   (iii) Equity Price Risk

				   The Group and the Company do not have any quoted investments and hence, is not
       exposed to equity price risk.

		 (b) Credit Risk

			   The exposure to credit risk, or the risk of counterparties defaulting, arises mainly from trade and
      other receivables. The Group and the Company manage their exposures to credit risk by the
      application of credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis. For
      other financial assets (including deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances),
      the Group and the Company minimise credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating
      counterparties.

			   Also, the Company’s exposure to credit risk includes loans and advances to subsidiaries, and
      corporate guarantee given to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain subsidiaries.
      The Company monitors the ability of the subsidiaries to serve their loans on an individual basis.

			   (i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile

				   The Group and the Company do not have any major concentration of credit risk related to
       any individual customer or counterparty.

			   (ii) Maximum exposure to Credit Risk

				   At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the
       carrying amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statement of financial
       position of the Group and of the Company after deducting any allowance for impairment
       losses (where applicable).

				   In addition, the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk also includes corporate
       guarantees provided to its subsidiaries of RM44,232,183 (2022: RM36,334,332),
       representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the
       reporting period. These corporate guarantees have not been recognised in the Company’s
       financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition was not material.
122 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

   		 (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

				  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses

				  At each reporting date, the Group and the Company evaluate whether any of financial
      assets at amortised cost are credit impaired.

				  The gross carrying amounts of those financial assets are written off when there is no
      reasonable expectation of recovery despite the fact that they are still subject to enforcement
      activities.

				  A financial asset is credit impaired when any of following events that have a detrimental
      impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred:-

				  - significant financial difficulty of the receivable;
				  -		a breach of contract, such as a default or a past due event;
				  - restructuring of a debt in relation to the receivable’s financial difficulty;
				  - it is becoming probable that the receivable will enter bankruptcy and other financial

         reorganisation.

				  The Group and the Company consider a receivable to be in default when the receivable is
      unlikely to repay its debt to the Group and the Company in full or is more than 90 days past
      due unless the Group and the Company have has reasonable and supportable information
      to demonstrate that a more a lagging default criterion is more appropriate.

				Trade Receivables

				  The Group applies the simplified approach to measure expected credit losses which uses a
      lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.

				Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables (including related parties) have
      been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.

				  The Group measures the expected credit losses of certain major customers, trade
      receivables that are credit impaired and trade receivables with a high risk of default on an
      individual basis.

				  The expected loss rates are based on the historical credit losses experienced, adjusted
      to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the
      ability of the customers to settle their debts using linear regressive analysis. The Group
      has identified the inflation rate as the key macroeconomic factor of the forward-looking
      information.

				  For some of the subsidiaries, the historical loss rates were not adjusted to reflect forward-
      looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the trade receivables
      to settle their debts as the Group has not identified any forward-looking assumptions which
      correlate to the historical loss rate.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared
      to the previous financial year.

 
                                                                               • ANNUAL REPORT         123

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

				  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Trade Receivables (Cont’d)

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

					                                                              Lifetime

				                                                  Gross        Collective  Carrying

				                                                  amount       Allowance   Amount

      The Group			                                    RM           RM          RM

				

				2023				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 34,183,720                          (21,812) 34,161,908

				  1 to 30 days past due		 9,575,216                            (11,895) 9,563,321

				  31 to 60 days past due		 3,166,557                               (3,209) 3,163,348

				  61 to 90 days past due		 1,468,483                           (64,864) 1,403,619

				  More than 90 days past due		                        936,251  (581,640)   354,611

								

								 49,330,227                                                (683,420) 48,646,807

				

				  Credit impaired		                                   864,224  (571,087)   293,137

								

								 50,194,451 (1,254,507) 48,939,944

								

				

				2022				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 29,028,670                              (4,535) 29,024,135

				  1 to 30 days past due		 9,071,170                            (102,396) 8,968,774

				  31 to 60 days past due		 4,379,537                               (9,069) 4,370,468

				  61 to 90 days past due		 2,703,872                           (71,077) 2,632,795

				  More than 90 days past due		 4,453,967                       (915,931) 3,538,036

								

								 49,637,216 (1,103,008) 48,534,208

				

				  Credit impaired		 1,761,957 (1,568,205)                                  193,752

								

								 51,399,173 (2,671,213) 48,727,960

								

				  The movements in the loss allowances in respect of trade receivables are disclosed in Note
      14 to the financial statements.

				Other Receivables (Including Related Parties)

				  The Group applies the 3-stage general approach to measure expected credit losses for its
      other receivables.

				  Under this approach, loss allowance is measured on either 12-month expected credit losses
      or lifetime expected credit losses, by considering the likelihood that the receivable would not
      be able to repay during the contractual period (probability of default, PD), the percentage of
      contractual cash flows that will not be collected if default happens (loss given default, LGD)
      and the outstanding amount that is exposed to default risk (exposure at default, EAD).
124 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

				  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Other Receivables (Including Related Parties) (Cont’d)

				  In deriving the PD and LGD, the Group considers the receivable’s past payment status and
      its financial condition as at the reporting date. The PD is adjusted to reflect current and
      forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the receivable
      to settle its debts.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared
      to the previous financial year.

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

				                                                  Gross   Lifetime Loss   Carrying

				                                                  amount       Allowance  Amount

      The Group			                                    RM           RM         RM

				

				2023				

				

				  Low credit risk		 9,965,908                                             - 9,965,908

				  Credit impaired		                                   397,420  (397,420)            -

								

								 10,363,328                                                (397,420) 9,965,908

								

				2022				

				

				  Low credit risk		 8,202,191                                             - 8,202,191

				  Credit impaired 		                                  448,710  (448,710)            -

								

								 8,650,901                                                 (448,710) 8,202,191

								

				

				  The movements in the loss allowances in respect of other receivables are disclosed in Note

      16 to the financial statements.

				Deposits with Licensed Banks, Cash and Bank Balances

				  The Group and the Company consider the licensed banks have low credit risks. In addition,
      some of the bank balances are insured by Government agencies. Therefore, the Group
      and the Company are of the view that the loss allowance is immaterial and hence, it is not
      provided for.

				Amount owing by Subsidiaries

				  The Company applies the 3-stage general approach to measuring expected credit losses
      for all inter-company balances.
                                                                             • ANNUAL REPORT         125

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

				  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Amount owing by Subsidiaries (Cont’d)

				Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  The Company measures the expected credit losses on an individual basis, which is aligned
      with its credit risk management practices on the inter-company balances.

				  The Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risks. The
      Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s
      financial position deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing
      of payments of the loans and advances when they are payable, the Company considers
      the loans and advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when
      demanded.

				  For loans and advances that are repayable on demand, impairment loss is assessed based
      on the assumption that repayment of the outstanding balances is demanded at the reporting
      date. If the subsidiary does not have sufficient highly liquid resources when the loans and
      advances are demanded, the Company will consider the expected manner of recovery to
      measure the impairment loss; the recovery manner could be either through “repayable over
      time” or a fire sale of less liquid assets by the subsidiary.

				  For loans and advances that are not repayable on demand, impairment loss is measured
      using techniques that are similar for estimating the impairment losses of other receivables
      as disclosed above.

				  There are no significant changes in the estimation techniques and assumptions as compared
      to the previous financial year.

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

				                                                  Gross   Lifetime Loss   Carrying

				                                                  amount   Allowance      Amount

      The Company 		 RM                                        RM             RM

				

      2023				

				

				  Low credit risk		 86,717,532                                           - 86,717,532

				  Credit impaired		                               969,541  (969,541)                -

								

								 87,687,073                                            (969,541) 86,717,532

								

				

				2022				

				

				  Low credit risk		 93,100,445                                           - 93,100,445

								

				The movements in the loss allowances are disclosed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
126 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

			 (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Financial Guarantees Contract

				  Corporate guarantees for borrowing facilities granted to subsidiaries are financial guarantee
      contract.

			   Inputs, Assumptions and Techniques used for Estimating Impairment Losses

				  The Company closely monitors the subsidiaries’ financial strength to reduce the risk of loss.

				  The Company considers there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s
      financial position deteriorates significantly. A financial guarantee contract is credit impaired
      when:

				  - The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its obligation to the bank in full; or
				  - The subsidiary is having a deficit in equity and is continuously loss making.

				  The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed amounts individually
      using internal information available.

				Allowance for Impairment Losses

				  All of the financial guarantee contracts are considered to be performing, have low risks of
      default and historically there were no instances where these financial guarantee contracts
      were called upon by the parties of which the financial guarantee contracts were issued to.
      Accordingly, no loss allowances were identified based on 12-month expected credit losses.

		(c) Liquidity Risk

			  Liquidity risk arises mainly from general funding and business activities. The Group and the
     Company practises prudent risk management by maintaining sufficient cash balances and the
     availability of funding through certain committed credit facilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis

			The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows
                         (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):-

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2023							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - non-interest bearing         -             57,860,594  57,860,594    57,860,594      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bank overdraft               3.85 - 8.75   4,258,686   4,258,686     4,258,686       -            -                 -

			  - bankers’ acceptance          3.80 - 4.74 39,171,952    39,171,952    39,171,952      -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   4.55 - 5.20   6,319,518   6,681,800     1,116,686   1,183,266    3,992,616    389,232

			  Lease liabilities              4.20 - 6.45 17,409,754    19,585,798    3,683,578   6,104,210    9,073,810    724,200

					

					                                            125,020,504 127,558,830 106,091,496    7,287,476    13,066,426   1,113,432

					

							

                                                                                                                                                                   • ANNUAL REPORT

                                                                                                                                                                   127
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)                                                                                    128 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2022							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - non-interest bearing         -             60,859,511  60,859,511    60,859,511      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bank overdraft               3.60 - 7.57   6,016,378   6,016,378     6,016,378       -            -                 -

			  - bankers’ acceptance          2.93 - 5.35 35,241,504    35,241,504    35,241,504      -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   4.30 - 4.84   7,129,054   7,572,332     1,116,686   1,116,686    4,755,112    583,848

			  Lease liabilities              4.41 - 6.45 16,917,678    19,587,667    3,620,569   5,767,778    9,203,120    996,200

					

					                                            126,164,125 129,277,392 106,854,648    6,884,464    13,958,232   1,580,048

					

							
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

					                                             Weighted						

					                                             Average		               Contractual On Demand 			

					                                             Effective  Carrying     Undiscounted  or Within 			

					                                Interest Rate           Amount       Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years

			The Company		                                  %          RM           RM            RM          RM           RM

				

			2023							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - non-interest bearing                       -          747,049      747,049       747,049         -                     -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries                 -          11,104,447   11,104,447    11,104,447      -                     -

			  Financial guarantee contract *               -		                  -  44,232,183    44,232,183      -                     -

					

						 11,851,496                                                         56,083,679    56,083,679      -                     -

					

			2022							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - non-interest bearing                       -          538,635      538,635       538,635         -                     -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries                 -          7,177,682    7,177,682     7,177,682       -                     -

			  Financial guarantee contract *               -		                  -  36,334,332    36,334,332      -                     -

					

						                                                       7,716,317    44,050,649    44,050,649      -                     -

					

			  * The contractual undiscounted cash flows represent the outstanding credit facilities of the subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period. The financial  • ANNUAL REPORT
       guarantees have not been recognised in the financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition were not material.

                                                                                                                                                                  129
130 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT

		  The Group and the Company manages their capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to
    maintain an optimal capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholder(s) value.
    To achieve this objective, the Group and the Company may make adjustments to the capital structure in
    view of changes in economic conditions, such as adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of
    capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.

		  The Group and the Company manage their capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt
    covenants and regulatory, if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity.
    The Group and the Company include within net debt, loans and borrowings from financial institutions
    less cash and cash equivalents. Capital includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent and non-
    controlling interests. The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group and the Company at the end of the reporting
    period are as follows:-

		                                                                      The Group
					
					                                                             2023                     2022

                                                                  RM                       RM

		  Bank borrowings:-

		  - bank overdrafts			                                          4,258,686                   6,016,378
                                                                                            16,917,678
		  - lease liabilities			 17,409,754                                                       42,370,558

		  - other borrowings			 45,491,470                                                        65,304,614
                                                                                             (6,457,419)
								                                                                                   (56,595,113)

								 67,159,910                                                                           2,252,082

		  Less: Deposits with licensed banks			 (20,077,918)                                     362,250,724

		  Less: Cash and bank balances			 (104,507,295)                                                    0.01

								

		  Net debt			 (57,425,303)

								

					

		  Total equity			 431,559,478

								

					

		  Debt-to-equity ratio			                                             *

								

		  * Not applicable as the Company’s cash and cash equivalents exceed its borrowings.

		  There was no change in the approach to capital management during the financial year.

41.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		                                            The Group           The Company
			
			                                     2023             2022     2023                     2022

                                        RM               RM       RM                       RM

		  Financial Assets					

		

		Fair value through profit or loss 					

		  Short-term investment               5,781,971    8,044,790    5,781,971                8,044,790

		Amortised Cost					

		  Trade receivables                   48,939,944   48,727,960                         -        -

		  Other receivables and deposits      9,965,908    8,202,191    626,695                  619,001

		  Amount owing by subsidiaries              -                -  86,717,532               93,100,445

		  Deposits with licensed banks        20,077,918   6,457,419                          -        -

		  Cash and bank balances              104,507,295  56,595,113   831,582                  626,326

			

			                                     189,273,036 128,027,473   93,957,780 102,390,562

			

							
                                                                              • ANNUAL REPORT                   131

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Cont’d)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

41. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

41.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D

		                                          The Group             The Company
			
			                                   2023             2022       2023        2022

                                      RM               RM         RM          RM

    Financial Liabilities					

		

		Amortised Cost					

    Trade payables                    34,854,444  41,267,307            -           -

		  Other payables, deposits

			 and accruals                      23,006,150  19,592,204      747,049     538,635

		  Amount owing to subsidiaries            -                -    11,104,447  7,177,682

		  Bank borrowings:-

		  - bank overdrafts                 4,258,686   6,016,378             -           -

		  - other borrowings                45,491,470  42,370,558            -           -

		  Lease liabilities                 17,409,754  16,917,678            -           -

						

						                                125,020,504 126,164,125     11,851,496  7,716,317

						

							

41.4 GAINS OR LOSSES ARISING FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		                                          The Group             The Company
			
			                                   2023             2022       2023        2022

                                      RM               RM         RM          RM

		Financial Assets					

    		

		Amortised Cost					

    Net (gains)/losses recognised in

			 profit or loss                    (954,012)        (353,659)  278,225     (506,235)

						

							

		Financial Liabilities					

    		

		Amortised Cost

		  Net losses recognised in

			 profit or loss                    1,840,694   1,623,902             -     195,051

						

							

41.5 FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

		  The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group maturing within the next 12
    months approximated their carrying amounts due to the relatively short-term maturity of the financial
    instruments or repayable on demand terms.

		  (a) The fair values of the term loans approximate their carrying amounts as they are repriced to
            market interest rates on or near the reporting date.

		  (b) The fair value of money market funds is determined by reference to statements provided by the
            respective financial institutions, with which the investments were entered into.
132 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

       ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

           The following information is presented in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
           Securities Berhad:

           AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

           The amount of audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT (“Crowe”) for the
           financial year ended 31 December 2023 by the Company and the Group are RM89,000 and RM402,300 respectively.
           The amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group for the financial year
           ended 31 December 2023 to Crowe and a firm or corporation affiliated to Crowe amounted to RM96,200 and
           RM178,300 respectively.

           UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS

           There were no proceeds raised from corporate proposals during the financial year under review.

           MATERIAL CONTRACT INVOLVING INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS

           There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interests of Directors and major shareholders,
           either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 or entered into since the end of the
           previous financial year.
                                                                                             • ANNUAL REPORT  133

LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

Location                   Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                           Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
Jl. Bhumimas I                                               Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
No. 9, Kawasan                                               Revaluation
Industrial Cikupamas
Cikupa Tangerang           Factory, Office and  Leasehold    31.12.2020    23        2.802    13,258,490
15710 Banten, Indonesia    Warehouse            Expiring on
                                                17.06.2028
Lot 4147, Block 19
Seduan Land District       Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    17        3.571    10,513,214
Upper Lanang Road          Coldroom and         Expiring on
96000 Sibu, Sarawak        Warehouse            10.01.2071

Jl. Adi Sucipto            Factory, Office and  Leasehold    31.12.2020    21        2.656    9,769,409
Arang Limbung Kubu         Warehouse            expiring
Raya, 78391 Pontianak                           20.08.2045
Indonesia
                           Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    28        5.671    9,247,644
Lot 999, Section 66        Coldroom and         Expiring on
Jalan Keluli               Abattoir             24.09.2117
Bintawa Industrial Estate
93450 Kuching, Sarawak     Layer Farm           Leasehold    31.12.2020    11        17.295
                           Layer farm           Expiring on
Lot 511, Block 9           Layer farm           17.04.2116   31.12.2020    11        30.999   7,086,493
Senggi-Poak Land District  Vegetable Farm
Bau, Sarawak                                    Leasehold    31.12.2020    11        10.459
                                                Expiring on
Bau Occupation Ticket No.                       17.04.2116   31.12.2020    6         12.531   6,616,610
3574, Bau Land District
Sarawak                                         Leasehold
                                                Expiring on
Lot 16, Block 9                                 17.04.2116
Senggi-Poak Land District
Bau, Sarawak                                    Leasehold
                                                Expiring on
Lot 2704, Block 24                              16.05.2073
Muara Tuang Land District
Sarawak
134 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES (Cont’d)

      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

Location                     Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                             Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
                                                               Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
                                                               Revaluation

Lot 604, Block 9             Breeder Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    33        15.250
Senggi-Poak Land District    Vacant land          Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                 Breeder Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    -         5.501
                             Breeder Farm
Lot 650, Block 9                                  Leasehold                                     5,613,994
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                                      11.05.2116   31.12.2020    33        14.443

Lot 1097, Block 9                                 Leasehold    31.12.2020    33        8.520
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau, Sarawak                                      18.04.2116

Bau Occupation                                    Leasehold
Ticket No. 2596 of 1934                           Expiring on
Bau Land District, Sarawak                        21.11.2116

Lot 123,                     Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    21        12.390
Senggi-Poak Land District    Broiler Farm         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                  Broiler Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    21        33.169
                             Broiler Farm
Lot 124,                                          Leasehold                                     5,330,949
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       09.02.2116   31.12.2020    21        2.720

Lot 202,                                          Leasehold    31.12.2020    21        4.960
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       10.04.2077

Lot 203,                                          Leasehold
Senggi-Poak Land District                         Expiring on
Bau Sarawak                                       17.04.2077

Country Lease No.            Factory, Office and  Leasehold    31.12.2021    26        2.679    5,098,700
025339753 & 025339762        Warehouse            Expiring on
Lok Kawi, District of Papar                       31.12.2042
Sabah

Country Lease No.            Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2021    12        12.320   4,463,877
025092602 Papar                                   Expiring on
District of Papar, Sabah                          02.07.2929
                                                                                                  • ANNUAL REPORT                        135

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 1 APRIL 2024

SHARE CAPITAL		

		

Total number of issued shares : 630,718,960

Issued share capital  : RM158,968,930

Class of shares       : Ordinary shares

Voting rights         : One vote per ordinary share

 No. of        Size of shareholdings                    % of holders         No. of shares        % of issued
holders                                                                                              capital#
               less than 100 shares                             2.71                    4,852            0.00
    127        100 - 1,000 shares                             16.30                 377,524              0.06
    765        1,001 - 10,000 shares                          43.90             10,105,320               1.63
  2,060        10,001 - 100,000 shares                        30.51             44,954,232               7.24
  1,432        100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares                        290,254,704               46.75
    306        5% and above of issued shares                    6.52          275,187,428               44.32
               -                                                0.06          620,884,060             100.00
        3                                                    100.00
  4,693

Note:
# excluding 9,834,900 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2024.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 1 April 2024)

No. Name                                                              No. of shares held

 1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.    Direct Interest          %#     Indirect Interest      %#
 2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.            138,170,076                                              -
 3. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.      103,426,080            22.25                    -
 4. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                  33,591,272                                       22.25
 5. Lau Liong Kii                               30,871,288(b)         16.66  138,170,076(a)             -
 6. Puan Sri Datin Wong Bak Hee                 15,668,752(d)
 7. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                           2,589,224           5.41                     -  38.91
 8. Tiong Chiong Soon                             1,699,624                                        4.36
 9. Chong Shaw Fui                                1,515,360           4.97   241,596,156(c)
                                                               -                                  38.91
                                                                      2.52   27,043,084(e)        38.91
                                                                                                  38.91
                                                                      0.42   241,596,156(c)
                                                                                                   5.41
                                                                      0.27   241,596,156(f)

                                                                      0.24   241,596,156(f)

                                                                          -  33,591,272(g)

Notes:

 # excluding 9,834,900 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2024.

(a) Deemed interested through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.

(b) 9,000,000 shares are held through Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 9,000,000 shares are held through UOB Kay
      Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of their substantial shareholdings in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak
      Sdn. Bhd.

(d) 3,559,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 4,455,896 shares are held through CGS International
      Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(e) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholding in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.

(f) Deemed interested by virtue of their directorships in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.

(g) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.
136 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (Cont’d)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2024

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 1 April 2024)

No. Name                                                              No. of shares held

 1. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk         Direct Interest               %#     Indirect Interest    %#
 2. Chong Shaw Fui                         30,871,288(a)                                        39.33
 3. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                                   -           4.97   244,185,380(b)
 4. Tiong Chiong Soon                        1,699,624                                           5.41
 5. Kueh Chung Peng                          1,515,360                    -  33,601,272(c)      39.39
 6. Lau Liong Kii                             9,480,664(f)                                      38.91
 7. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng      15,668,752(h)              0.27   244,567,888(d)
 8. Dato Sim Kheng Boon                         521,428(j)                                       1.19
 9. Wong Ping Eng                                         -           0.24   241,596,156(e)      6.56
                                                          -                                      0.53
                                                                      1.53   7,407,400(g)
                                                                                                      -
                                                                      2.52   40,701,352(i)            -

                                                                      0.08   3,311,988(k)

                                                                          -               -

                                                                          -               -

The Directors by virtue of their interests in shares in the Company are also deemed to have interests in shares in all of
its related corporations to the extent the Company has an interest, pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

Notes:

 # excluding 9,834,900 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2024.

(a) 9,000,000 shares are held through Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 9,000,000 shares are held through UOB Kay
      Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise
      Sdn. Bhd., and the interest of his spouse in the Company.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and the interest of his child in
      the Company.

(d) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., and
      the interests of his spouse in the Company.

(e) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.

(f) 7,445,892 shares are held through CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 2,034,772 shares are held
      through RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(g) Deemed interested by virtue of the interest of his children in the Company.

(h) 3,559,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 4,455,896 shares are held through CGS International
      Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(i) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd., and the interests of his spouse and
      children in the Company.

(j) 393,132 shares are held through AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(k) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Tseng Tseng Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and De Supreme Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                         • ANNUAL REPORT                                 137

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (Cont’d)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2024

THIRTY LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS                                               No. of shares    %#
                                                                                           138,170,076   22.25
 No. Name                                                                                  103,426,080   16.66
                                                                                            33,591,272
   1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.                                                 27,043,084    5.41
                                                                                            12,871,288    4.36
   2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                                         9,000,000   2.07
                                                                                                          1.45
   3. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                                   9,000,000
                                                                                                          1.45
   4. Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.                                                         8,363,300
                                                                                                          1.35
   5. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                                                             7,653,760
                                                                                              7,445,892   1.23
   6. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                         1.20
           - Pledged securities account for Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk (7006915)             7,171,300
                                                                                                          1.16
   7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                  6,555,876       1.06

   8. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                            6,257,900       1.01
           - Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) (Kenanga)
                                                                                         5,118,332       0.82
   9. Lau Liong Kii
                                                                                         5,052,268       0.81
 10. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Kueh Chung Peng (MQ0352)                     5,010,900       0.81

 11. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                            4,963,072       0.80
           - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Syariah Growth Opportunities Fund
             (50156 TR01)                                                                4,455,896       0.72

 12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                               4,343,932       0.70
           - Pledged securities account for Yii Ching Yii
                                                                                         4,033,900       0.65
 13. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad - Kenanga Growth Fund                          4,020,600       0.65

 14. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                            3,907,400       0.63
           - Pledged securities account for Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien (MQ0136)
                                                                                         3,800,000       0.61
 15. Wong See Khong
                                                                                         3,739,560       0.60
 16. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Kueh Tiong Ching (E-SRK)                     3,559,096       0.57

 17. Annie Lau Ting Ting                                                                 3,517,100       0.57

 18. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                            3,500,000       0.56
           - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii (MQ0348)
                                                                                         3,200,000       0.52
 19. Betty Lau Mei Mei
                                                                                         3,001,040       0.48
 20. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Growth Opportunities Fund          3,000,000       0.48
           (50154 TR01)

 21. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Ting Yong Ding

 22. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Kueh Tze Liang (MQ0543)

 23. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Ng Ai Choo

 24. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Ng Ai Choo (MQ0359)

 25. Maybank Nominees(Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii

 26. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
           - J.P. Morgan Securities PLC

 27. Kueh Tze Siong

 28. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
           - Pledged securities account for Lee Poh Kwee

 29. Wong Kee Hung

 30. Kong Goon Khing

Note:
# excluding 9,834,900 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2024.
138 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

       NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad
(“the Company”) will be held at the Company’s Conference Room at Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa
Industrial Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia on Friday, 31 May 2024 at 12.00 noon to transact the following
businesses:

                       AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (Please refer

together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.                               to Note 1)

2. To declare and approve the payment of a first and final single-tier dividend of 4.25 sen per Resolution 1
        share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM384,359 for the financial year Resolution 2
        ended 31 December 2023.

4. To approve the meeting allowance up to RM35,400 payable to the Directors for the period Resolution 3
        from 1 June 2024 until the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.

5. To re-elect the following Directors retiring pursuant to Article 122 of the Company’s
        Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.

        (i) Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng                                                  Resolution 4
                                                                                               Resolution 5
        (ii) Tiong Chiong Soon                                                                 Resolution 6
		
6. To re-elect Dato Sim Kheng Boon who retires pursuant to Article 127 of the Company’s        Resolution 7

        Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
		
7. To re-appoint Crowe Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the

        next annual general meeting and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:

8. To consider and if thought fit, pass the following ordinary resolution:

Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares                       Resolution 8

“THAT, subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (as may be amended, modified or re-
enacted from time to time) (“the Act”), rules, regulations and orders made pursuant to the
Act, provisions of the Company’s Constitution and the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant authorities,
where applicable, the Company be hereby unconditionally and generally authorised to
purchase and/or hold such an amount of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share
Buy-Back”) as may be determined by the Directors from time to time through Bursa Securities
upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit, necessary and expedient in
the interest of the Company provided that the total aggregate number of shares purchased
and/or held or to be purchased and/or held pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being and an
amount of funds not exceeding the Company’s total retained profits at the time of purchase
be allocated by the Company for the Proposed Share Buy-Back AND THAT such shares
purchased are to be retained as treasury shares and distributed as dividends and/or resold
on the market of Bursa Securities, or subsequently may be cancelled;

AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised and empowered to do all acts and
                                                                                                         • ANNUAL REPORT  139

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

        things and to take all such steps and to enter into and execute all commitments, transactions,
        deeds, agreements, arrangements, undertakings, indemnities, transfers, assignments and/
        or guarantees as they may deem fit, necessary, expedient and/or appropriate in order to
        implement, finalise and give full effect to the Proposed Share Buy-Back with full powers
        to assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or amendments, as
        may be required or imposed by any relevant authorities and to do all such acts and things
        (including executing all documents) as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best
        interest of the Company;

        AND FURTHER THAT the authority hereby given will commence immediately upon the
        passing of this resolution and will continue to be in force until:

        (a) the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company, at which time it will
                 lapse, unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is renewed,
                 either unconditionally or subject to conditions;

        (b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting after that
                 date is required by law to be held; or

        (c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in general
                 meeting.

        whichever occurs first, in accordance with the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa
        Securities or any other relevant authorities.”

9. To transact any other business which may properly be transacted at an annual general
        meeting, due notice of which shall have been given in accordance with the Companies Act
        2016 and the Company’s Constitution.

		
140 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

       NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

        NOTICE OF DIVIDEND ENTITLEMENT AND PAYMENT

            NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN that a first and final single-tier dividend of 4.25 sen per share in respect of the
            financial year ended 31 December 2023, if approved at the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting, will be payable
            on 19 June 2024 to depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 4 June 2024.

            A depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:
            (a) shares transferred into the depositor’s securities account before 4.30 p.m. on 4 June 2024 in respect of

                    transfers; and
            (b) shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of

                    Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

            By Order of the Board of Directors

            Voon Jan Moi (MAICSA 7021367)

              (SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008001906)

            Yap Hui Yih (MAICSA 7048748)

              (SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008000570)

            Joint Company Secretaries

            Dated: 30 April 2024
            Kuching, Sarawak

            NOTES:

            1. This agenda item is meant for discussion only as under the provision of Section 340 of the Companies Act 2016 and
                      the Company’s Constitution, the Audited Financial Statements do not require the formal approval of shareholders and
                      hence, this matter will not be put forward for voting.

            2. Re-election of Directors

                      The Nomination Committee has assessed the performance and contribution of Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng,
                      Tiong Chiong Soon and Dato Sim Kheng Boon and was satisfied with their performance and recommended them for
                      re-election. The Board endorsed the Nomination Committee’s recommendation that Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong
                      Seng, Tiong Chiong Soon and Dato Sim Kheng Boon be re-elected as Directors of the Company. All the aforesaid
                      Directors met the criteria in accordance with the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.

            3. Proposed renewal of authority for purchase of own shares by the Company

                      The proposed Resolution 8 if passed, will renew the authority for the Company to purchase and/or hold its own shares
                      up to ten per cent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company through Bursa Malaysia Securities
                      Berhad. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting, unless revoked or varied by
                      ordinary resolution passed by shareholders at general meeting.

                      Please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024 for further information.

            4. Proxy

                      (a) A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There
                               shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.

                      (b) To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at
                               Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia not less than
                                                                                            • ANNUAL REPORT              141

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Cont’d)

    48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

(c) If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand
         of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.

(d) A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the
         Company. Where a Member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he
         specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

(e) Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
         Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to
         the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account
         it holds.

		  An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central
    Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1)
    of SICDA.

(f) Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2024 shall be regarded as members
         of the Company entitled to attend this Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on
         their behalf.
142 • CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

                                                                 [ This page has been deliberately left blank ]
            CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

            Registration no. 199601024340 (396692-T)

FORM OF PROXY                                            Number of shares held
                                                         CDS Account No.

*I/We, _________________________________________________________ (full name)_____________________________*(I.C./Passport/Company No.)

of _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

being a member of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) hereby appoint ___________________________________________

________________________________________________________________ (full name) _______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

*and/or failing *him/her, _______________________________________ (full name) ______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)
or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twenty-Eighth Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held at the Company’s Conference Room at Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa
Industrial Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia on Friday, 31 May 2024 at 12.00 noon and any adjournment thereof.

*My/our proxy shall vote as indicated with an “X” below. If no specific direction as to voting is given, the proxy will vote or abstain
from voting at *his/her discretion:

Resolutions                                                                                      For  Against

1. Declaration and payment of a first and final single-tier dividend of 4.25 sen per share for
       the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

2. Payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM384,359 for the financial year ended
       31 December 2023.

3. Payment of meeting allowance up to RM35,400 to the Directors for the period from
       1 June 2024 until the next annual general meeting to be held in 2025.

4. Re-election of Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng as Director.

5. Re-election of Tiong Chiong Soon as Director.

6. Re-election of Dato Sim Kheng Boon as Director.

7. Re-appointment of Crowe Malaysia PLT as auditors.

8. Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.

The proportions of *my/our holdings to be presented by *my/our proxy are as follows:

				                                      No. of shares           %

First named proxy    :				

Second named proxy :

		 Total:		

In case of a vote taken by a show of hands, the first named proxy shall vote on *my/our behalf.

Dated this   day of                       2024

                                                                                      *Signature / common seal of shareholder(s)

* Strike out whichever is not applicable

Notes:

1. A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification
     of the proxy.

2. To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
     Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

3. If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in
     writing.

4. A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company. Where a Member appoints more than
     one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

5. Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
     (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
     omnibus account it holds.

     An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is
     exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.

6. Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 24 May 2024 shall be regarded as members of the Company entitled to attend this
     Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
Fold here

                                                                                                                            PLEASE
                                                                                                                        AFFIX STAMP

                                                                                                                             HERE

           The Company Secretary
           CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

           199601024340 (396692-T)

           Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli
           Bintawa Industrial Estate
           93450 Kuching
           Sarawak, Malaysia

           Fold here
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

                               199601024340 (396692-T)
                               (Incorporated in Malaysia)

     Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate
                    93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia

                   Tel : 082-336 520 Fax : 082-331 479
