18 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     The Board of Directors (“Board”) of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) presents this Statement to
     provide shareholders and investors with an overview of the corporate governance practices during the financial year
     2020 in accordance with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).

     This Statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which provides the
     details on how the Company has applied each Practice as set out in the MCCG. The CG Report is available on the
     Company’s website at www.cck.com.my.

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

     I. Board Responsibilities

              The Board is always mindful of its responsibilities to the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders.
              The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies for the Company and ensure that long-term goals
              and short-term objectives are met with sufficient resources in place.

              To ensure optimum decision-making, the positions of the Chairman and Group Managing Director are held
              by different individuals. Their responsibilities and accountability are clearly defined in the Board Charter. The
              Board Charter also sets out authority, roles and responsibilities of the Board, Board Committees and individual
              Directors. The Code of Conduct is in place to govern good business conduct and healthy corporate culture
              so as to support long-term sustainable success. Whistleblowing Policy is also in place to enable individuals
              to raise concerns of improper conduct and wrong doing. The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance approach
              against all forms of bribery and corruption and has put in place an Anti-Bribery Corruption Policy.

              The Board is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, who provide sound
              advice in relation to governance, regulatory requirements, policies and procedures. The Board members have
              full and unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries.

     II. Board Composition

              The Company is led and managed by an experienced Board comprising ten (10) members. The Non-
              Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Vice Chairman, the Group Managing Director, three (3)
              Executive Directors and four (4) Independent Directors. 40% of the Board members consist of Independent
              Directors with necessary experience, skills, qualifications and other core competencies to bring balanced and
              objectivity to the decisions making of the Board.

              The Board recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board and is satisfied that the current size and
              composition of the Board is considered adequate for decision making in terms of age and ethnicity, as well as
              skills, experience, expertise and perspectives.

              The Board has in place a policy on gender diversity in the Nomination and Election Process of the Board
              members, to ensure that women candidates are sought in its recruitment exercise.

              The Board is of the opinion that long-serving Independent Directors can continue to provide unbiased and
              independent views to the Board. Their experiences, expertise and networking is valuable in ensuring the
              Company’s continued performance.

              The Board, through the Nomination Committee (“NC”) conducted an annual assessment of effectiveness of the
              Board, the Board Committees, and individual Directors during the financial year under review. All assessment
              carried out by the NC were properly documented, summarized and reported to the Board. The Board is satisfied
              that they had been effective in the discharge of their overall functions and duties.
                                                  19 ANNUAL REPORT

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONT’D)

III. Remuneration

        The Board has established a Remuneration Policy for the Directors, which is reviewed periodically. The
        Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration of Directors annually to ensure the remuneration packages
        remain appropriate, competitive and in alignment with the prevalent market rate so as to attract and retain
        individuals with high caliber.

        During the financial year 2020, the Remuneration Committee met once. They reviewed and recommended to
        the Board the remuneration packages of Directors, taking into consideration commitment and responsibilities
        assumed, experience and skills required, performance of the members of the Board, as well as the performance
        of the Group.

        The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee is made available on the Company’s website.

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit Committee

        The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises four (4) Independent Directors and one (1) Non-Executive Non-
        Independent Director. The AC is chaired by an Independent Director.

        The composition of the AC is reviewed by the NC annually and recommended to the Board for approval. The
        NC ensures all AC members are financially literate, possess appropriate level of expertise and experience, and
        have strong understanding of the Group’s business. The AC members keep abreast of relevant developments
        in accounting, auditing and governance. The Board is satisfied with the performance of the AC for the financial
        year under review.

        The AC oversees the financial reporting, ensures the quarterly and annual financial statements are prepared in
        accordance with the provision of the Companies Act 2016, applicable approved accounting standards and the
        Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad so as to give a true and fair view of the
        state of affairs, results and cash flows of the Group for the financial year 2020.

        The AC assesses suitability, objectivity and independence of the External Auditors annually and is satisfied with
        the competency and independency of the External Auditors for the financial year under review.

        The Board is satisfied with the performance of the AC and its members in discharged their functions.

        Further details on the AC are disclosed in the Audit Committee Report as outlined on pages 30 to 31 of this
        Annual Report.

II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework

        The Board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control System
        (“System”) of the Group through the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), AC and NC.

        The RMC comprises all five (5) Executive Directors. The Risk Management Department assists RMC to ensure
        adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management practices. The Internal Audit Department assists the AC
        to ensure the internal control function is operated effectively and satisfactorily.

        The Board is satisfied with the performance of the RMC and AC in relation to risk management and internal
        audit function for the financial year under review. The Board is of the view that the Group has in place a sound
        System to safeguard the Group’s assets, shareholders’ investment, and interests of customers, employees and
        other stakeholders.

        The details of the System are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 27
        to 29 of this Annual Report.
20 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONT’D)

     PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                           STAKEHOLDERS

     I. Communication with Stakeholders

              The Board ensures that communication with the Company’s shareholders and various stakeholders is
              transparent, timely and with quality disclosures. The Company communicates with its shareholders and other
              stakeholders through various platforms, including announcements made via Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
              (“Bursa Securities”), disclosures on the Company’s website, meeting with institutional prospective investors
              and questions invited in general meetings.

              The investor relations activities serve as an important communication channel with the Company’s shareholders
              and investment community. Stakeholders are encouraged to channel their concerns to the email address at
              sam@bcta.com.my.

     II. Conduct of General Meetings

              Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for communicating between the Company and its
              shareholders. Notice of AGM and annual report were dispatched to shareholders 28 days before the date of
              the AGM in 2020.

              The Chairmen of the Board Committees together with the top management and external auditors were present
              to address queries during AGM. The Chairman briefed the shareholders of their rights to raise questions and
              vote. Shareholders were also briefed on the voting procedures by the poll administrator prior to the poll voting.
              The vote cast and poll results were validated by the independent scrutineer. The poll results of each resolutions
              tabled at the AGM were announced to Bursa Securities on the same day of the AGM.

     This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 13 April 2021.
                                              21 ANNUAL REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT

Message from the Group Managing Director

Dear Stakeholders,

Each year, CCK publishes a Sustainability Statement sharing our environmental, social
and economic impacts over the previous year and setting out our plans for the future.
Launched in 2018, our Sustainability Goals are in place to help us make the shift to a
more sustainable business. This will help the environment we operate in, and bring
greater value to the company, our customers and our Stakeholders. A sustainable future
is aligned with the 2030 ambition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted
by the United Nations in September 2015. The SDGs can be found in the key document,
Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.

WHO IS CCK

For more than 60 years, CCK has been providing quality fresh chicken and frozen products to our customers spanning
East Malaysia. Subsequently, we ventured into production and retailing in Indonesia in 2011. CCK’s business is
divided into 4 segments namely retail, poultry, prawn and food service. The sustainability initiatives are focused on
the retail and poultry segments, as these are our core business components and major revenue contributors.

As CCK has grown to become Sarawak’s leading integrated poultry chain supporting a network of retail outlets
spanning Sarawak and Sabah, the concept of sustainable development has been increasingly integrated into our
business culture.

By ensuring sustainability throughout our Group, we are establishing the platform for our businesses to strengthen
operational efficiencies and deliver long-term growth for all stakeholders.

SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE

CCK’s approach to sustainability revolves around the Group’s Vision and Mission Statements and governed by our
Core Values –

Our Vision          Our Mission               Core Values

The Food People of  The provision of          Our Vision & Mission
Choice              quality food, ensuring    are achieved through
                    customer satisfaction,    the core values of
                    financial sustainability  continuous quality,
                    and responsible social    financial sustainability,
                    and environmental         customer satisfaction
                    interaction. Achieved     and social and
                    through integrated        environmental
                    solutions involving       responsibility
                    innovative, integrous
                    teams of committed
                    people
22 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (CONT’D)

BOARD OF        • Formulates sustainable business strategies
DIRECTORS       • Monitors business strategies

SUSTAINABILITY  • Oversees implementation of sustainability strategies
STEERING        • Sets targets
COMMITTEE       • Evaluates risks
                • Oversees the working group
SUSTAINABILITY
WORKING GROUP   • Implements the strategies set out by the steering committee
                • Sets up processes and controls
                • Reports on targets set by steering committee

CCK’s sustainability process starts at the top with the Group Managing Director and Board of Directors setting out the
business strategies incorporating sustainable elements for the business.

The Sustainability Steering Committee is made up of Heads of Departments of the core functions of the CCK Group
including Human Resources, Finance, Purchasing and Retail Operations. The Steering Committee is the driving
force behind the sustainability process and sets up the strategies needed to move us forward. The Committee reports
directly to the Group Managing Director and Board of Directors.

The Sustainability Working Group implements the strategies and sets out the parameters of these strategies for the
CCK Group. The Working Group is made up of staff and executives of the various departments in the Group and they
report directly to the Steering Committee.

CCK recognises that group-wide action, commitment and acceptance are required from all levels of staff and business
units. Constant monitoring and re-thinking is required of our identified targets and processes for both the short-term
and long-term.

In recognition of the importance of sustainability to the Group in the environment we operate in, the members of the
Steering Committee participated in a sustainability programme in the first quarter of 2021 organised by the Malaysian
Investor Relations Association Berhad (MIRA). Since then, we have re-looked at the current processes we have
in place and have reviewed and modified some of our processes and targets. We are aware that the sustainability
process is continuously evolving and we target to use a phased-in approach to achieve integrated reporting in 5 years.
                                                                                              23 ANNUAL REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (CONT’D)

SUSTAINABLE FOCUS AREAS

          PEOPLE

     The success of the Group is built on our people. As the nature of our work is evolving,
     we must continue focusing on attracting, retaining and developing skilled teams for
     today and for the future. This also includes continuing focus on maintaining a safe
     work environment and a safe shopping environment.

       PROSPERITY

• Developing a values-based business based on a culture of good governance
     and ethical conduct which supports the effective functioning of core systems and
     processes.

• Our customers are at the heart of everything we do and customer satisfaction is
     a priority in our outlets.

• Playing a role in the local community where we operate our business

       PLANET

Assessing and managing “responsible” and “ethical” issues within our retail and
poultry operations, including both social and environmental issues.

As part of our evolving sustainability process, the Steering Committee has recently reviewed the above areas of
focus. We have identified additional focus points and these will be reported in our next Sustainability Statement.

MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT

We are in the midst of reviewing our materiality assessments touchpoints, identifying and prioritising the economic,
environmental and social areas that will drive our sustainability development. The following was adopted as CCK’s
materiality assessment process –

IDENTIFICATION  An internal sustainability group consisting of key senior management and heads of
PRIORITISATION  department was created to identify material sustainability issues across the retail and
                poultry segments.
GOVERNANCE
                In the process of prioritising material sustainability issues, the following matters were
                considered –
                • The economic, environmental and social impacts
                • Factors that may affect CCK’s financial sustainability
                • The perspectives and interests of both internal and external stakeholders

                Sustainability in any organisation is constantly evolving. The Board of Directors and
                management team will constantly and systemically review the current procedures in
                view of developing further the existing processes.
24 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (CONT’D)

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

Proactive stakeholder engagement ensures that our business operations remain relevant and viable. CCK engages
with a diverse group of stakeholders –

Stakeholders     Key areas of focus                        Methodology

Shareholders     • Profitability                           • Annual General Meetings
                 • Dividends                               • Annual reports
                 • Return on investment                    • Quarterly reports
                                                           • Press releases

Customers/       • Consistency in our quality of products  • Site visits to suppliers premises
Suppliers           and services                           • Supplier evaluation forms
and Industry                                               • Customer feedback
Partners         • Affordability                           • Customer satisfaction surveys
                 • Payment terms and timeliness of

                    payments
                 • Process and product innovations

Employees        • Providing meaningful work               • Skills fit for roles
                 • Career development                      • Leadership training
                 • Training                                • Career Advancement Programs
                 • Talent management                       • Coaching
                 • Recruitment selection                   • Performance management
                 • Health and safety

Government       • Certifications                          • Periodic compliance audits
Authorities and  • Industry best practises                 • Compliance and certification
Regulators       • Compliance with laws and regulations
                                                              exercises
                                                           • Briefings and trainings

Community        • Branding and reputation                 • Educational site visits
(non-government  • Healthy and sustainable communities     • Bursaries for children of staff
organisations,   • Environmental sustainability            • Waste water treatment
associations,    • Partnerships and joint ventures         • Sponsor meals for needy schools
academia)

MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY - ECONOMIC

Economic performance is the generation of sustainable financial and economic returns whilst creating long-term
values for stakeholders to ensure sustainability of our business. Maintaining and building on our economic growth is
crucial for CCK’s business continuity. It is increasingly clear that environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues
are fundamentally interconnected with our ability to meet the increasing expectations of our stakeholders and the
wider society.

A significant component of CCK’s economic performance is derived from profitability. This is measured regularly
against budgets and KPIs. A full breakdown and detailed report on the economic performance of the Group for the
financial year ended 31st December 2020 is appended in this Annual Report. We would like to stress that CCK’s
subsidiaries were classified as essential services during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and as such, were fully
operational in 2020 during the various stages of movement controls.
                                                                         25 ANNUAL REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (CONT’D)

The stakeholders impacted by our achievements are not limited to those who rely on our business directly through
salaries, dividends and returns. The community in which we operate in also shares in our continued sustainable
performance. In 2020, we continued sponsoring Sekolah Menengah Kampung Nangka Food Bank during the limited
school year which was affected by the covid-19 pandemic. CCK also contributed eggs and other food items to
villagers who were unable to leave their homes because of Enhanced Movement Control Orders (EMCO) in certain
areas of Kuching. In addition, various donations in cash and kind were donated to various organisations and the
under-privileged.

MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY - ENVIRONMENTAL

We recognise the impact our operations have on our environment. CCK takes environmental issues seriously and we
work closely with environmental regulators ensuring compliance with all standards at all times to reduce the impact
on the environment.

CCK has set up an Environmental Management System (EMS) in our main abattoir in Kuching. The EMS is a
collaborative and systematic approach to manage environmental risks and comply with environmental regulations
and standards, and also government regulations. The EMS is not solely an internal framework but also incorporates
views from out stakeholders, in particular our corporate clients and government regulators.

                Strategies                      Commitments                           Achievements

     Abattoir                           Abattoir                              Abattoir
1. Waste water management          1. Re-cycling waste water from        1. Water output from abattoir
2. Toxic waste management
3. Stack monitoring for clean air       slaughter process                     meets parameters set by
                                   2. Disposing of all toxic waste in a       regulators
     control                                                             2. Setting up in-house laboratory
                                        responsible manner                    to regularly monitor outputs
     Farms                         3. Enhance the waste                  3. Scheduled toxic waste disposal
4. Managing odour and noise                                                   arrangement with a licensed
                                        management system                     company
     pollution                     4. Ensure dust emissions from         4. Dust emissions from abattoir
                                                                              meets parameters set out in
     Logistics                          abattoir meet regulatory              the Environmental Quality
5. Reducing emissions by our            requirements                          (Clean Air) Regulation 2014

     logistics trucks                   Farms                                 Farms
                                   5. Minimise odour and noise           5. Building closed-house farms
                                                                         6. My Gap certifications for farms
                                        pollution in the farms
                                   6. Good farm practises                     Logistics
                                                                         7. Scheduled deliveries that
                                        Logistics
                                   7. Reducing emissions from our             regulate the number and
                                                                              frequency of CCK vehicles on
                                        fleet of logistic trucks              the road

MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY - SOCIAL

The success of our business relies on our employees. In a work environment which is evolving rapidly, the Group is
continuing to concentrate on attracting, retaining and developing skilled teams. With a staff-strength of more than
2000 across the CCK Group, we are an established source of stable employment.

Training Department
CCK has set up a Training Department which conducts training needs analysis of staff, organises in-house and external
seminars and conducts briefings when required. The Training Department also monitors Continuing Professional
Development (CPD) hours of staff. In 2020, attendances at seminars and trainings were mainly through virtual mode.
26 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT (CONT’D)

Safety & Health Committee

The Safety & Health Committee of CCK was established to monitor all safety issues arising at the main abattoir, as
well as safety and health issues in our retail stores and administrative blocks. The Committee sits quarterly to review
all safety issues and incidences and ensures compliance with relevant occupational, safety and health regulations.

Crisis Management Team

The Crisis Management Team was activated in March 2020 in response to the covid-19 pandemic. The team sets out
all standard operating procedures (SOPs) affecting both staff, customers and suppliers with regards the pandemic
and monitors compliance with the frequent updates issued by the National Security Council, Ministry of Health,
Sarawak Disaster Management Committee and other various government bodies.

                Strategies               Commitments                       Achievements

1. Providing jobs           1. Employee welfare               1. Internship placement for
2. Career development       2. Team development                    interns from local universities
3. Training                 3. Leadership development              and colleges in the farms and
4. Talent management        4. Skills fit for roles                factory
5. Recruitment selection    5. Enhanced recruitment program
6. Safe workplace           6. Coaching                       2. In-house training for retail staff
                            7. Effective occupational health       as part of Career Advancement
                                                                   Program
                                 and safety measures
                                                              3. All new employees are
                                                                   required to attend mandatory
                                                                   orientation programs

                                                              4. Periodic briefing sessions to
                                                                   employees on topics of safety
                                                                   and health care issues

                                                              5. Adhering to Occupational,
                                                                   Safety and Health
                                                                   management system

                                                              6. Setting up and monitoring of
                                                                   covid-19 related SOPs across
                                                                   all entities of the CCK Group

                                                              7. Continuous assessment of
                                                                   training needs
                                                   27 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Company is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control in compliance with Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Listing Requirements”) and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal control: Guidelines for
Directors of Listed Issuers (“Guidelines”), the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance and Corporate Governance
Guide.

A sound risk management framework and internal control system (“System”) is embedded into the culture of the
Group, which is responsive to changes in the business and market environment, economy, as well as the world
situation. The System is to safeguard the Group’s assets and shareholders’ investments as well as the interests of
customers, employees and other stakeholders.

BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY

The Board is committed to maintain a sound System and affirms its overall responsibility for the System of the Group
by continuously reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the System. The task of scrutinising the System is taken
up by the Board Committees, i.e. Audit Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).

The System covers strategy, operations, finance, information technology, regulatory compliance, sustainability and
external environment. The System is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks threatening, and achieving
the Group’s strategies and business objectives within the risk tolerance level established by the Board. The System
provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against any material misstatement, losses or fraud.

The Board has received assurance from the Group Managing Director that the System of the Group is operating
adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on the System adopted by the Group. The System does not
cover associated company as the management is not under the control of the Board. However, the Group’s interest
is served through representation on the board of the associated company.

The Board has reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the System through the AC and RMC. Risk Reports
and Internal Audit Reports were reviewed by the RMC and AC respectively in the quarterly meetings held during the
financial year 2020. Necessary actions have been and are being taken to remedy significant weaknesses identified
from the review.

Risk-related matters and internal control issues which warranted the attention of the Board were recommended by the
RMC and AC to the Board for its deliberation and approval, decisions made within the RMC’s and AC’s purview were
escalated to the Board for its notation.

RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

The principal responsibilities of the RMC is to establish and monitor the Group’s risk management framework, develop
process to identify, assess, monitor, manage and report on all key business risks, and to provide guidance and
strategic direction to the business units on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system in order to
achieve the Group’s objectives and strategies within the acceptable risk appetite.

The RMC, with assistance of Risk Management Department (“RMD”), ensures effective and consistent adoption of
risk management practices in the Group. The staff of RMD meets with the risk owners of the major divisional units
and business units twice a year, to identify and evaluate risks concerned so as to establish risk profile of the Group.

The level of risk tolerance is expressed in the risk rating matrix, which is scaled in accordance to the likelihood of the
risk and the impact on revenue, profit and cost. Risk parameter as a guide for determining the risk impact is updated
annually in accordance with the plans and budgets of the Company and its major subsidiaries. Once the risk level is
determined, risk owners will carry out mitigating actions within appropriate timeframe in accordance to the proposed
action plans. Risk owners will update their existing risk profile on an on-going basis with regard to the progress,
emerging risk, new strategies and the outcome.
28 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)

     The RMC reviews and deliberates the risk profile of the Group in the RMC meetings held quarterly. RMC ensures
     that the overall risks are adequately identified and managed within an acceptable risk appetite. Critical risks, together
     with its impact, mitigating actions and improved results, are presented to the Board. The Group’s significant risks for
     the financial year under review includes farm harvesting, factory performance, market competition, quality target and
     COVID-19 pandemic impact.

     INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESS

     Audit

     The AC, with assistance of Internal Auditors, is tasked by the Board with duty of reviewing and appraising the
     effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Group in accordance with the objectives of the Group.

     In carrying out its responsibilities, the AC relies significantly on the support of the Internal Audit Department. The
     Internal Auditors focus their functions on the major business units based on an annual audit plan approved by the AC
     in accordance to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. The Internal Auditors
     uphold the principles of acting in independency, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality and competency. The AC also
     reviews and deliberates on any matters relating to internal control which was highlighted by the External Auditors.

     Meetings and discussions of Internal Auditors were held with Head of Departments and employees concerned,
     to identify, discuss and resolve key operational issues. Where any significant weakness has been identified, the
     Internal Auditors together with the management will recommend corrective measures to improve the internal control
     accordingly. The audit issues, findings and corrective measures were compiled into audit reports for deliberation in
     the AC meetings held quarterly. Follow up audits are also taken to assess the status of implementation thereof, and
     significant unresolved audit issues are escalated to the Board for deliberation.

     Any cases of fraud, whether actual or suspected, are required to be reported to the Chairman of the AC and the Group
     Managing Director immediately upon discovered. Any significant incident concerning security of cash, information
     and record keeping, as well as regulatory compliance are also required to be informed to the Head of Internal Audit
     Department upon discovered.

     The AC reviews the audit plans and reports of the External Auditors annually to ensure competencies and suitability
     of the External Auditors.

     Compliance audits are conducted by auditors of relevant industry certification bodies on subsidiaries which are
     accredited with various quality, health and safety, and environment certificates. The results are reported to the
     management of the Group.

     Authority and Responsibilities

     The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees with clearly defined authorities and responsibilities in
     respective committees’ Terms of Reference.

     Business performance of the Group is reviewed in monthly operation meetings and quarterly meetings of the Board.
     Quarterly results of the Group are compared against budgeted figures and results of corresponding period last year.

     Policies and Procedures

     The Group has put in place a set of standard operating procedures named Corporate Management System (CMS), to
     ensure the effectiveness of internal control, to mitigate risk, and to achieve the performance and targets of the Group.
     These procedures are continuously reviewed, monitored, updated and improved by the steering committee.

     Insurance

     Sufficient insurance coverage and physical safeguards on major assets are in place to ensure that the assets of the
     Group are adequately covered against any mishap that could result in material loss to the Group.
      
                                                                                                                        29 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)

REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT
The Board has ensured that this Statement is reviewed by External Auditors pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the
Listing Requirements. The External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention which
causes them to believe that the Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines,
nor is the Statement factually inaccurate.

CONCLUSION
The Board is satisfied that the System is efficient and adequate to meet the Group’s strategies and objectives for the
financial year under review and up to the date of approval of this Statement. The Board will continue to ensure the
effectiveness and adequacy of the System.

This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 13 April 2021.
30 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

The Board of Directors (“Board”) presents the Audit Committee Report which provides insights into the manner in
which the Audit Committee (“AC”) discharged its functions for the Group during the financial year ended 2020.

COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE

The AC consists of the following five (5) members. Five (5) AC meetings were held during the financial year. Their
attendance at the AC meetings are as follows:

AC Members                                Attendance
                                                5/5
Chairman:		
Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak Banyang               5/5
                                                5/5
(Independent Director)                          4/5
                                                5/5
Members:
Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk		

(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)

Bong Wei Leong

(Independent Director)

Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen

(Independent Director)

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng

(Independent Director)

FUNCTION

The Board is satisfied that the AC and its members have discharged their functions, duties and responsibilities in
accordance with the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC. The term of office and performance of AC and its members
are reviewed by the Nomination Committee annually. Summary of the TOR of AC are available at the Company’s
website at www.cck.com.my.

The Heads of Finance and Internal Audit together with Company Secretaries attended the meetings held during the
year. External auditors also attended meetings upon invitation of the AC.

All proceedings and deliberations in terms of the issues discussed, and recommendations and decisions made at the
AC meetings are recorded in the minutes by the Company Secretaries and confirmed by the AC. Significant matters
discussed at each meeting were reported to the Board by the AC Chairman.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

The AC carried out the following activities during the financial year:

(a) reviewed and deliberated the quarterly and annual audited financial statements to ensure that the financial
        reporting and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the financial positions of the Group and in compliance
        with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Act
        2016 and Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, prior to submission to the
        Board for consideration and approval;

(b) reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Group, including
        any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions of management integrity as well as
        the adequacy of the disclosure in the quarterly and annual audited financial statement, prior to the Board’s
        consideration and approval;

(c) reviewed and approved the annual audit plans of the internal auditors and external auditors to ensure adequacy
        of resources, competencies and coverage of areas to be audited;

(d) reviewed and deliberated the audit reports of the internal auditors and external auditors, which includes the
        major findings, recommendations with respect to the system and control weaknesses, and management’s
        responses thereto;
                                 31 ANNUAL REPORT

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT (CONT’D)

(e) met with the external auditors and internal auditors twice respectively without the presence of the other Directors
        and employees of the Group to review key issues;

(f) assessed the performance, suitability and independence of external auditors, and recommended re-appointment
        of external auditors and the proposed fees for the Board’s approval;

(g) reviewed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit function;
(h) reviewed and deliberated the comparison of actual against budgeted results on a quarterly basis;
(i) reviewed the Audit Committee Report and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control prior to the

        Board’s consideration and approval; and
(j) reviewed the performance of the Group and made recommendation for appropriate corrective measures to the

        Board.

INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

The Group’s Internal Audit Function is carried out by an independent in-house Internal Audit Department (“IAD”), which
principal responsibility is to assist the AC in discharging its duties and responsibilities by undertaking independent,
objective, regular and systematic review of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that
such system continues to operate effectively and satisfactorily within the Group. The IAD reports directly to the AC.

The IAD is headed by Mr. Ting Ching Siong, who holds a Bachelor of Accounting. He was re-appointed as head of
IAD in April 2021. Mr. Ting has vast experience in internal audit. He led the IAD from 2013 to 2016. The IAD is staffed
by five (5) team members, including the Head of IAD. All staff have tertiary qualifications in the field of business
administrative, accountancy, chemistry and economics. All the Internal Auditors are free from any relationships or
conflict of interest, which could impair their objectivity and independence.

The IAD carried out the activities based on the risk-based approach annual audit plan which was approved by the AC.
Ad-hoc audits and special investigative assignment will be performed when required. The audit conducted during the
year covered warehouses, trading, retail outlets, as well as retail outlet’s image and hygiene.

The internal audit reports, submitted to the AC quarterly, incorporating findings, recommendations to rectify weaknesses
and enhance controls, together with corrective measures taken within an agreed timeline, were presented to the AC.
Follow-up audits on significant engagements were conducted to ensure that corrective and preventive measures
have been implemented accordingly. Relevant recommendations were suggested by IAD after root-cause analysis
was conducted on material weaknesses, with intention to solve the underlying problems and improve the processes
and performance.

The total costs incurred by IAD in discharging its functions and responsibilities in 2020 amounted to RM455,142
(2019: RM421,167).

Further details of the Company’s internal control function are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of this Annual Report.

This Report is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 13 April 2021.
32 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

    FOR PREPARING THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
     each financial year are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
     Reporting Standards, the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 (“CA”) and the Main Market Listing Requirements
     of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

     The Directors are also responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
     position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020 and of their financial performance and cash flows
     of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

     In preparing the financial statements, the Directors ensure that the Management has:
     • adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
     • made estimates and judgements that are reasonable and prudent; and
     • prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.

     The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the Company maintain accounting records which
     disclose the financial position of the Group and of the Company with reasonable accuracy and which enable them to
     ensure that the financial statements comply with the CA.

     The Directors are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
     the Group and of the Company, and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.

     This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 13 April 2021.
                                       FINANCIAL
                                       STATEMENTS

34  Directors’ Report

39  Statement by Directors

39  Statutory Declaration

40  Independent Auditors’ Report

44  Statements of Financial Position

46  Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income

48  Statements of Changes in Equity

51  Statements of Cash Flows

54  Notes to the Financial Statements
34 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management services.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have been no
significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

RESULTS

                                              The Group                                        The Company
                                                   RM                                                 RM

Profit after taxation for the financial year  37,482,270                                           10,943,185

Attributable to:-		                                                                                10,943,185

Owners of the Company                         37,482,270

DIVIDENDS

Dividends paid or declared by the Company since 31 December 2019 are as follows:-		

		RM
Ordinary Share

In respect of the financial year 31 December 2019			

An interim dividend of 1.25 sen per ordinary share, paid on 30 June 2020		                     7,833,059

A final dividend of 0.50 sen per ordinary share, approved by the shareholders at the

Annual General Meeting held on 24 August 2020, paid on 22 September 2020		                     3,133,223

			

			                                                                                            10,966,282

			

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.

ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year:-
(a) there were no changes in the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company; and
(b) there were no issues of debentures by the Company.
                            35 ANNUAL REPORT

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONT’D)

TREASURY SHARES

During the financial year, the Company purchased 322,900 of its issued ordinary shares from the open market at
an average price of RM0.35 per share. The total consideration paid for the purchase was RM112,205 including
transaction costs. The shares purchased are being held as treasury shares in accordance with Section 127(6) of the
Companies Act 2016 and are presented as a deduction from equity.

As at 31 December 2020, the Company held as treasury shares a total of 4,074,100 of its issued and fully paid-up
ordinary shares. The treasury shares are held at a carrying amount of RM2,432,449. The details of the treasury
shares are disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

During the financial year, no options were granted by the Company to any person to take up any unissued shares in
the Company.

BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance
for impairment losses on receivables and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate allowance had been made for impairment losses on receivables.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that would require the further writing off of
bad debts, or the additional allowance for impairment losses on receivables in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company.

CURRENT ASSETS

Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable steps
to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business, including their
value as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company, have been written down to an amount
which they might be expected so to realise.

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed
to the current assets in the financial statements misleading.

 
VALUATION METHODS

At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render adherence
to the existing methods of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.

CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES

At the date of this report, there does not exist:-

(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year
        which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.

No contingent or other liability of the Group and of the Company has become enforceable or is likely to become
enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors,
will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations when they fall due.
36 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONT’D)

     CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES

     At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
     the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial
     statements misleading.

     ITEMS OF AN UNUSUAL NATURE

     The results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not, in the opinion of the
     directors, substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

     There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
     transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the directors, to affect substantially the
     results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

      
     DIRECTORS

     The names of directors who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-

     Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
     Tiong Chiong Hiiung
     Chong Shaw Fui
     Tiong Chiong Soon
     Lau Liong Kii
     Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng
     Kueh Chung Peng
     Datuk Pemanca Janggu Anak Banyang
     Datu Haji Putit Bin Matzen
     Bong Wei Leong

     The names of directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date of this
     report, not including those directors mentioned above, are as follows:-

     Chai Min Diang
     Chong Min Fui
     Chong Pio
     Chong Su Khiun
     Ethan Tiong Ing Hung
     Joseph Tang Chiod Sui
     Kapitan Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien
     Penghulu Lau Hieng Wuong
     Ko Chang Mui @ Robert Khu (Resigned on 30.10.2020)
     Kueh Tiong Ching
     Lau Pek Kii
     Ung Yiik Hieng
     Wong Hua Tiing
                                                                              37 ANNUAL REPORT

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONT’D)

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of directors’ shareholdings, the interests of directors holding office at the end of the financial
year in shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year are as follows:-

                                                Number of Ordinary Shares

                                   At 			                                     At

                                   1.1.2020     Bought     Sold               31.12.2020

The Company				

				

Direct Interests				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk        40,721,288           -  (6,050,000) 34,671,288

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                1,699,624            -                  -  1,699,624

Tiong Chiong Soon                  1,515,360            -                  -  1,515,360

Lau Liong Kii                      14,340,752   400,000                    -  14,740,752

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng  986,428      30,000     (495,000)          521,428

Kueh Chung Peng                    10,903,364   517,300                    -  11,420,664

Datuk Pemanca Janggu Anak Banyang  198,400              -                  -  198,400

				

Indirect Interests 				

				

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk        244,185,380          -                  - 244,185,380

Tiong Chiong Hiiung                244,567,888          -                  - 244,567,888

Chong Shaw Fui                     33,611,272           -                  -  33,611,272

Kueh Chung Peng                    4,107,400            -                  -  4,107,400

Tiong Chiong Soon                  241,596,156          -                  - 241,596,156

Lau Liong Kii                      44,204,052   80,000                     -  44,284,052

Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng  3,312,388            -                  -  3,312,388

By virtue of their shareholdings in the Company, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Tiong Chiong
Soon are deemed to have interests in shares in its related corporations during the financial year to the extent of the
Company’s interests, in accordance with Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

The other directors holding office at the end of the financial year had no interest in shares of the Company or its
related corporations during the financial year.

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than a benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by directors shown in
the financial statements, or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company or related corporations) by reason
of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a
member, or with a company in which the director has a substantial financial interest except for any benefits which may
be deemed to arise from transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain
directors have substantial financial interests as disclosed in Note 35(b) to the financial statements.

Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Group or the Company a party to any arrangements whose
object is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The details of the directors’ remuneration paid or payable to the directors of the Company during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
38 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONT’D)

     INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COST
     During the financial year, there is no indemnity given to or professional indemnity insurance effected for directors,
     officers or auditors of the Company.
     SUBSIDIARIES
     The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
     SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
     The significant events during the financial year and subsequent events are disclosed in Note 40 to the financial
     statements.
     AUDITORS
     The auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
     The details of the auditors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.
      
     Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 13 April 2021.

     Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
     Director

     Tiong Chiong Hiiung
     Director
                                                                                                                        39 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk and Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being two of the directors of CCK Consolidated Holdings
Berhad, state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 44 to 126 are drawn up
in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2020 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year ended on that date.

Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 13 April 2021.

Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk  Tiong Chiong Hiiung
Director                     Director

STATUTORY DECLARATION

PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, Tiong Chiong Hiiung, being the director primarily responsible for the financial management of CCK Consolidated
Holdings Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 44 to 126 are,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovementioned
Tiong Chiong Hiiung, NRIC Number: 670208-13-6277
at Sibu
in the State of Sarawak
on this 13 April 2021

                                                                                                                             Tiong Chiong Hiiung
                                                                                                                             Director

Before me
40 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies, as set out on pages 44 to 126.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial
year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards
Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence
Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws
and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed
in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.

Impairment of Inventories                               How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 11 in the financial statements
                                                        Our procedures included, amongst others:-
Key Audit Matter
                                                        (a) Understanding management’s process in
The Group’s inventories were stated at a carrying            determining impairment of inventories
amount of RM55.5 million as of 31 December 2020.
                                                        (b) Reviewing the ageing analysis of inventories
The assessment of impairment of inventories on
hand due to obsolescence as at the end of the           (c) Understanding and testing the operating
reporting period require management estimates and            effectiveness of control over inventories; including
judgements. This, in combination with the significance       observing the process of year-end inventory count
of inventories in the financial statements, made us
identify the impairment of inventories as a key audit   (d) Inquiring of management action plans to slow-
matter of our audit.                                         moving and obsolete inventories

                                                        (e) Evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures in the
                                                             financial statements
                                                             41 ANNUAL REPORT

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

Cash Sales Transactions                                   How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 26 in the financial statements
                                                          Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                          (a) Inquiring, inspecting, observing and documenting
The Group’s revenue is mainly contributed by the               cash sales cycle to obtain an understanding of the
retail segment, which represents 80% of the total              Group’s design and implementation of policies
revenue as per financial year ended 31 December                and procedures of the cycle
2020. Majority of the Group’s transactions are settled
in cash. Cash sales transactions is a key audit matter    (b) Performing walkthrough tests, test of controls
due to voluminous transactions arising at multiple             on cash sales cycle with samples documented
sales points.                                                  on identified key controls and evaluation of the
                                                               control processes for cash sales transactions
Revenue recognition is a key audit matter due to:              cycle especially the cash receipts and payment
                                                               processes
• risk that revenue may be overstated because of
     the pressure from management to achieve the          (c) Examining and reviewing year end cut-off
     planned results as revenue recognition has a              to ensure revenue are accounted for in the
     direct impact on the results of the Group.                appropriate period

• most of the retail revenue is settled in cash which
     is subjectable to misappropriation.

Valuation of biological assets                            How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
Refer to Note 12 in the financial statements
                                                          Our procedures included, amongst others: -
Key Audit Matter
                                                          (a) Evaluating the appropriateness of the methodology
The biological assets of the Group mainly comprise             and key assumptions used by management in
broilers and layers.                                           valuation of the biological assets.

In determining the fair value of the biological assets,   (b) Checking the mathematical accuracy of the
the Group uses the discounted cash flows model and             valuation model prepared by management.
significant judgement is involved in determining the
key assumptions which will impact the amount of fair      (c) Corroborating the weekly number of eggs
value of biological assets recognised.                         produced and weekly feed consumption volume to
                                                               the historical data provided to us by management.
We focused on this area because there is key
judgement involved in determining the expected            (d) In respect of the projected selling prices and
number of eggs produced by each layer, the                     feed costs, we have back-tested by comparing
expected selling price of the eggs, mortality rate, feed       the projected prices against historical prices and
consumption rate and feed costs over the remaining             checked the reasonableness of the adjustments
life of the layers, as well as the discount rates.             made for abnormal market movements.

The accounting policy for biological assets has been      (e) Test checking the mortality rate assumption
disclosed in Note 4.14 to the financial statements.            against historical actual mortality rate.

The key assumptions used in the discounted cash           (f) Assessing the appropriateness of the range
flow model and the sensitivity analysis are disclosed          used to test the sensitivity analysis performed by
in Note 12 to the financial statements.                        management as disclosed in Note 12.

                                                          (g) Evaluating the adequacy of the disclosure in the
                                                               financial statements.
42 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

    TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)

     REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

     Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

     The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
     included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
     auditors’ report thereon.

     Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
     we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

     In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
     read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
     financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears
     to be materially misstated.

     If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
     we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

     Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

     The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the
     Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
     Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
     responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
     statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

     In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
     Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
     concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or
     the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

     Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

     Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
     Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
     report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
     audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
     Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
     considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
     decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

     As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
     Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-

     • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
             Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
             obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
             detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
             involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

     • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
             appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
             Group’s and the Company’s internal control.

     • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
             related disclosures made by the directors.
                                                                                                                        43 ANNUAL REPORT

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)

• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
        the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
        significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
        material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures
        in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify
        our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
        However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
        concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
        Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
        represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
        activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
        for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
        opinion.

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats of safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
interest benefits of such communication.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which
we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.

OTHER MATTERS

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for
the content of this report.

Crowe Malaysia PLT                                  Morris Hii Su Ong
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA) & AF 1018  Approval No: 1682/04/23(J)
Chartered Accountants
                                                Chartered Accountant
Sibu, Sarawak
Date: 13 April 2021
44 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AT 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                               The Group                            The Company

			 2020                                                                2019        2020        2019

		                                   Note  RM                           RM          RM          RM

							

ASSETS							

NON-CURRENT ASSETS						

Investments in subsidiaries          5         -                              -     81,448,101  81,448,101

Investment in an associate           6     29,687,899  26,486,459                   19,930,171  19,930,171

Property, plant and equipment        7     202,960,099 190,402,821                  8,675,961   8,836,331

Investment properties                8     16,212,679  17,084,879                         -           -

Goodwill                             9     380,224                      380,224           -           -

Deferred tax assets                  10    1,593,117                    1,388,522         -           -

			

			                                        250,834,018 235,742,905 110,054,233 110,214,603

CURRENT ASSETS						

		

Inventories                          11    55,500,930  55,842,815                         -           -

Biological assets                    12    16,307,669  15,323,862                         -           -

Trade receivables                    13    32,633,047  39,678,504                         -           -

Other receivables, deposits and 						

prepayments                          14    10,335,544                   11,216,604  304,346     216,644

Amount owing by subsidiaries         15        -                              -     96,588,118 111,860,628

Current tax assets		                       1,161,961                    770,942           -           -

Deposits with licensed banks         16    9,266,229                    4,925,406         -           -

Cash and bank balances		                   49,860,764  39,100,668                   4,772,579   428,783

							

			                                        175,066,144 166,858,801 101,665,043 112,506,055

			

TOTAL ASSETS		                             425,900,162 402,601,706 211,719,276 222,720,658

			

				

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						

		

EQUITY

Share capital                        17    158,968,786 158,968,786 158,968,786 158,968,786

Treasury shares                      18    (2,432,449) (2,320,244) (2,432,449) (2,320,244)

Reserves                             19    144,395,239 119,124,773                  32,999,254  33,022,351

			

Equity attributable to owners of						

the Company		                              300,931,576 275,773,315 189,535,591 189,670,893

Non-controlling interests		                92,114                       380,252           -           -

			

TOTAL EQUITY		                             301,023,690 276,153,567 189,535,591 189,670,893

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                               45 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (CONT’D)

AT 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                              The Group                            The Company

			 2020                                                                2019       2020        2019

		                               Note     RM                            RM         RM          RM

NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES								

							

Other payables, deposits and accruals 20  3,433,991                     6,265,023  3,433,991   6,265,023

Bank borrowings                  21       7,547,626                     6,310,420        -           -

Lease liabilities                22       16,144,407  10,977,619                         -           -

Deferred income                  23       18,815                        18,815           -           -

Deferred tax liabilities         10       9,766,525                     9,661,156  1,543,035   1,475,023

			

			                                       36,911,364  33,233,033                   4,977,026   7,740,046

			

CURRENT LIABILITIES					

Trade payables                   24       22,835,312  23,697,959                         -           -

Other payables, deposits and accruals 20  21,983,183  19,586,308                   3,785,519   3,771,034

Amount owing to subsidiaries     15           -                               -    1,421,140   3,538,685

Bank borrowings:-                21				

- bank overdrafts		                           -                         814,819          -           -

- other borrowings		                      36,020,060  43,962,820                   12,000,000  18,000,000

Lease liabilities                22       3,133,106                     1,826,082        -           -

Provision for employee benefits  25       880,817                       775,964          -           -

Current tax liabilities		                 3,112,630                     2,551,154        -           -

							

			                                       87,965,108  93,215,106                   17,206,659  25,309,719

			

TOTAL LIABILITIES		                       124,876,472 126,448,139                  22,183,685  33,049,765

			

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		            425,900,162 402,601,706 211,719,276 222,720,658

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
46 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                               The Group                             The Company

		                                         2020                         2019         2020        2019

		                                   Note  RM                           RM           RM          RM

								

REVENUE                              26    656,043,078 651,314,172                   12,630,000  11,366,000

							

COST OF SALES		                            (528,471,249) (528,756,655)                     -           -

				

GROSS PROFIT		                             127,571,829 122,557,517                   12,630,000  11,366,000

							

OTHER INCOME		                             6,303,629                    5,759,212    1,143,821   2,390,994

							

SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION						

EXPENSES		                                 (20,928,100) (18,272,147)                       -           -

							

ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES		                  (24,602,321) (26,566,394) (2,001,851) (2,183,997)

								

OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES		                 (44,600,269) (41,886,133)                       -           -

								

FINANCE COSTS		                            (2,154,277) (3,957,210)                   (760,773) (1,222,386)

								

NET IMPAIRMENT (LOSSES)/GAINS						

ON FINANCIAL ASSETS                  27    (146,281)                    4,353              -           -

							

SHARE OF PROFITS OF						

AN EQUITY ACCOUNTED						

ASSOCIATE		                                6,465,440                    5,252,320          -           -

				

PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION               28    47,909,650    42,891,518                  11,011,197  10,350,611

							

INCOME TAX EXPENSE                   29    (10,427,380)                 (9,686,511)  (68,012)    (182,491)

				

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION		                    37,482,270    33,205,007                  10,943,185  10,168,120

							

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE 						

INCOME                               30					

		

Items that Will Not be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Remeasurement of defined						

		 benefits plan		                         (30,169)                     28,018             -           -

							

Items that Will be Reclassified						

Subsequently to Profit or Loss						

Foreign currency translation 						

		 differences		                           (1,200,827)                  1,016,524          -           -

							

TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE						

INCOME		                                   (1,230,996)                  1,044,542          -           -

				

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME						

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR		                   36,251,274    34,249,549                  10,943,185  10,168,120

				

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                            47 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONT’D)

                                      The Group                                 The Company

		                                2020                                  2019    2020        2019

		                          Note  RM                                    RM      RM          RM

							

PROFIT AFTER TAXATION

ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           37,482,270  33,170,065                        10,943,185  10,168,120

Non-controlling interests		             -                               34,942        -           -

				

				                              37,482,270  33,205,007                        10,943,185  10,168,120

				

							

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE 						

INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-						

Owners of the Company		           36,251,274  34,214,607                        10,943,185  10,168,120

Non-controlling interests		             -                               34,942        -           -

				

				                              36,251,274  34,249,549                        10,943,185  10,168,120

				

							

EARNINGS PER SHARE (SEN):-  31					

Basic		                               5.98                                  5.28 			

Diluted		                         Not applicable Not applicable

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY                                                                                                                      48 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

					                                                                                Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                Exchange 		               to Owners   Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury     Translation  Retained     of the      Controlling   Total
                                                                         Shares                                                          Equity
			                                             Capital                              Reserve      Profits      Company     Interests
                                                                           RM                                                             RM
			                                     Note    RM                                   RM           RM           RM          RM

The Group								

Balance at 1.1.2019		                           158,968,786 (1,614,492) (4,481,655) 97,245,598 250,118,237                 433,014 250,551,251

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -           - 33,170,065 33,170,065      34,942 33,205,007

Other comprehensive income for the

financial year:-                        30							

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -           -   28,018       28,018                 -  28,018

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        -  1,016,524              -  1,016,524              -  1,016,524

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        -  1,016,524 33,198,083 34,214,607       34,942 34,249,549

									

Contributions by and distribution to

owners of the Company:-								

- Purchase of treasury shares           18               -              (705,752)             -             -  (705,752)              -  (705,752)

- Dividends:-								

- by the Company                        32               -                        -           - (7,853,777) (7,853,777)               - (7,853,777)

- by the Subsidiary to non controlling

			 interest		                                           -                        -           -             -           -  (87,704)      (87,704)

			

Total transactions with owners		                         -              (705,752)             - (7,853,777) (8,559,529)    (87,704) (8,647,233)

					

Balance at 31.12.2019		                         158,968,786 (2,320,244) (3,465,131) 122,589,904 275,773,315                380,252 276,153,567

					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

					                                                                                Foreign 		                Attributable 		

					                                                                                Exchange 		               to Owners   Non-

			                                             Share                   Treasury     Translation  Retained     of the      Controlling   Total
                                                                         Shares                                                          Equity
			                                             Capital                              Reserve      Profits      Company     Interests
                                                                           RM                                                             RM
			                                  Note       RM                                   RM           RM           RM          RM

The Group								

Balance at 31.12.2019/1.1.2020		                158,968,786 (2,320,244) (3,465,131) 122,589,904 275,773,315                380,252 276,153,567

									

Profit after taxation for the financial year		           -                        -           - 37,482,270 37,482,270                 - 37,482,270

Other comprehensive income for the									

financial year:-                     30					

- Remeasurement of defined benefit plans		               -                        -           -   (30,169)     (30,169)               -  (30,169)

- Foreign currency translation differences		             -                        - (1,200,827)             - (1,200,827)             - (1,200,827)

									

Total comprehensive income for the 									

financial year		                                         -                        - (1,200,827) 37,452,101 36,251,274                 - 36,251,274

									

Contributions by and distributions to									

owners of the Company:-

- Purchase of treasury shares        18                  -              (112,205)             -             -  (112,205)              -  (112,205)

- Dividends:-								

- by the Company                     32                  -                        -           - (10,966,282) (10,966,282)             - (10,966,282)

- Acquisition from non- controlling

			 interest		                                           -                        -           -   (14,526)     (14,526)    (288,138)     (302,664)

									

Total transactions with owners		                         -              (112,205)             - (10,980,808) (11,093,013)  (288,138) (11,381,151)

					

Balance as at 31.12.2020		                      158,968,786 (2,432,449) (4,665,958) 149,061,197 300,931,576                92,114 301,023,690

					

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.                                                                                ANNUAL 49 REPORT
50 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

			                                        Share        Treasury                   Retained     Total

			                                        Capital                      Shares     Profits      Equity

		                                   Note  RM                           RM         RM           RM

						

The Company					

Balance at 1.1.2019		                      158,968,786                  (1,614,492) 30,708,008 188,062,302

						

Profit after taxation/Total 						

comprehensive income						

for the financial year		                            -                           -  10,168,120   10,168,120

						

Contributions by and

distributions to owners						

of the Company:-					

- Purchase of treasury shares        18             -                   (705,752)            -  (705,752)

- Dividends                          32             -                           -  (7,853,777) (7,853,777)

						

			                                                 -                   (705,752) (7,853,777) (8,559,529)

			

Balance at 31.12.2019/1.1.2020		           158,968,786                  (2,320,244) 33,022,351 189,670,893

						

Profit after taxation/Total 						

comprehensive income						

for the financial year		                            -                           -  10,943,185   10,943,185

						

Contributions by and 						

distributions to owners						

of the Company:-					

- Purchase of treasury shares        18             -                   (112,205)            -  (112,205)

- Dividends                          32             -                           - (10,966,282) (10,966,282)

						

			                                                 -                   (112,205) (10,966,282) (11,078,487)

			

Balance at 31.12.2020		                    158,968,786                  (2,432,449) 32,999,254 189,535,591

			

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                51 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                              The Group                            The Company

			                                           2020                      2019       2020         2019

			RM                                                                   RM         RM           RM

								

CASH FLOWS FROM/(FOR) 						

OPERATING ACTIVITIES						

Profit before taxation		                      47,909,650  42,891,518               11,011,197   10,350,611

							

Adjustments for:-						

Allowance for impairment losses

on receivables		                              213,790                   344,420          -            -

Allowance for impairment losses

on receivables no longer required		           (67,509)                  (348,773)        -            -

Bad debts written off		                       68,929                    126,290          -            118

Changes in fair value of biological assets		  (983,807) (1,066,614)                      -            -

Depreciation of investment properties		       126,700                   126,701          -            -

Depreciation of property, plant and

equipment		                                   22,153,616  22,152,168               160,370      161,210

Dividend income		                                   -                         - (12,264,000) (11,000,000)

Gain on derecognition of lease contract		     (6,727)                         -          -            -

(Gain)/loss on disposal of property,						

plant and equipment		                         (8,121)                   27,853           -            -

Interest expense		                            2,154,277                 3,957,210  760,773      1,222,386

Interest income		                             (373,772)                 (419,037) (1,020,246) (1,288,752)

Property, plant and equipment written off		   23,322                    45,448           -            -

Provision for employee benefits		             238,156                   147,540          -            -

Share of profits of an equity accounted

associate		                                   (6,465,440) (5,252,320)                    -            -

Unrealised loss on foreign exchange		         7,056                     18,399           -            -

			

Operating profit/(loss) before working

capital changes		                             64,990,120  62,750,803               (1,351,906)  (554,427)

							

Decrease/(increase) in inventories		          171,972                   (344,394)        -            -

Decrease/(increase) in trade and

other receivables		                           7,470,874                 2,159,051  (87,702)     300,867

(Decrease)/increase in trade and

other payables		                              (725,269)                 (163,647) (2,816,547)   547,570

Employee benefits paid		                      (140,374)                 (32,272)         -            -

			

CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATIONS/						

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD		                     71,767,323  64,369,541               (4,256,155)  294,010

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
52 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                                The Group                        The Company

		                                          2020                        2019     2020         2019

		                                   Note   RM                          RM       RM           RM

							

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		                   71,767,323  64,369,541               (4,256,155)  294,010

Income tax paid		                           (10,446,622) (11,180,403)                  -            -

Income tax refunded		                       135,738                     849,094        -            -

Interest paid		                             (2,154,277) (3,957,210)              (760,773) (1,222,386)

Interest received		                         373,772                     419,037  1,020,246    1,288,752

			

NET CASH FROM/(FOR)						

OPERATING ACTIVITIES		                      59,675,934  50,500,059               (3,996,682)  360,376

							

CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES						

Acquisition of additional equity

interests from non-controlling

interests                            5(b)   (302,664)                         -        -            -

Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of						

cash and cash equivalents acquired		              -                           -        -      (499,999)

Repayment from subsidiaries		                     -                           -  15,272,510   855,037

Dividend received		                         3,264,000                         -  12,264,000   11,000,000

Proceeds from disposal of 						

property, plant and equipment		             119,800                     152,099        -            -

Purchase of property, plant

and equipment                        33(a)  (25,213,328) (24,030,785)                  -          (750)

							

NET CASH (FOR)/FROM 						

INVESTING ACTIVITIES		                      (22,132,192) (23,878,686) 27,536,510 11,354,288

			

BALANCE CARRIED FORWARD		                   37,543,742  26,621,373               23,539,828   11,714,664

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                53 ANNUAL REPORT

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

                                            The Group                              The Company

		                                      2020                            2019       2020         2019

		                              Note    RM                              RM         RM           RM

							

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD		               37,543,742   26,621,373                    23,539,828   11,714,664

CASH FLOWS FOR

FINANCING ACTIVITIES						

(Repayment to)/advance from						

subsidiaries                    33(c)          -                              -    (2,117,545)  1,885,582

Dividend paid:-					

- by the Company                32      (10,966,282) (7,853,777) (10,966,282) (7,853,777)

- by subsidiaries to non-controlling						

interests		                                    -                        (87,704)         -            -

Drawdown of term loans          33(c)   1,945,000                       3,152,500        -            -

Purchase of treasury shares		           (112,205)                       (705,752)  (112,205)    (705,752)

Repayment of bankers' acceptance 33(c)  (2,283,744)                     (213,950)        -            -

Repayment of lease liabilities  33(d)   (3,532,240) (1,671,768)                          -            -

Repayment of revolving credit   33(c)   (6,000,000) (6,000,000) (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

Repayment of term loans         33(c)   (366,810)                       (320,718)        -            -

							

NET CASH FOR

FINANCING ACTIVITIES		                  (21,316,281) (13,701,169) (19,196,032) (12,673,947)

				

NET INCREASE/(DECREASE)						

IN CASH AND CASH						

EQUIVALENTS		                           16,227,461   12,920,204                    4,343,796    (959,283)

							

EFFECTS OF FOREIGN						

EXCHANGE TRANSLATION		                  (311,723)                       210,280          -            -

							

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT BEGINNING OF THE 						

FINANCIAL YEAR		                        43,211,255   30,080,771                    428,783      1,388,066

				

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS						

AT END OF THE 						

FINANCIAL YEAR                  33(b)   59,126,993   43,211,255                    4,772,579    428,783

				

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
54 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

     1. GENERAL INFORMATION

              The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. The registered
              office, which is also the principal place of business, is Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
              Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak.

              The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of
              the directors dated 13 April 2021.

2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

        The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding and the provision of management
        services. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements. There have
        been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION

The financial statements of the Group are prepared under the historical cost convention and modified to include
other bases of valuation as disclosed in other sections under significant accounting policies, and in compliance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

3.1 During the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following new accounting standard(s) and/
        or interpretation(s) (including the consequential amendments, if any):-

		MFRSs and/or IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)

		  Amendments to MFRS 3: Definition of a Business

		  Amendments to MFRS 4: Extension of the Temporary Exemption from Applying MFRS 9

		  Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139 and MFRS 7: Interest Rate Benchmark Reform

		  Amendment to MFRS 16: COVID-19 – Related Rent Concessions

		  Amendment to MFRS 16: COVID-19 – Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021

		  Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS 108: Definition of Material

		  Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards

		  The adoption of the above accounting standards and interpretations (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.

3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s)
        (including the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting
        Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:-

		MFRSs and IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)        Effective Date
                                                                               1 January 2023
		  MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts                                                1 January 2022

		  Amendments to MFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework                1 January 2021

		  Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16:                         Deferred
                                                                               1 January 2023
			 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
                                                                               1 January 2023
		  Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128: Sale or Contribution of Assets         1 January 2023
                                                                               1 January 2023
			 between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

		  Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts

		  Amendment to MFRS 101: Classification of Liabilities as Current or

			 Non-current

		  Amendments to MFRS 101: Disclosure of Accounting Policies

		  Amendments to MFRS 108: Definition of Accounting Estimates
                                                                               55 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

3. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)

3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s)
        (including the consequential amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting
        Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet effective for the current financial year:- (Cont’d)

		MFRSs and IC Interpretations (Including The Consequential Amendments)        Effective Date

		  Amendments to MFRS 116: Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before

			 Intended Use                                                               1 January 2022
                                                                               1 January 2022
		  Amendments to MFRS 137: Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract  1 January 2022

		  Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 – 2020

		  The adoption of the above accounting standard(s) and/or interpretation(s) (including the consequential
    amendments, if any) is expected to have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group
    upon their initial application. 

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

		  The outbreak of the COVID-19 has brought unprecedented challenges and added economic uncertainties
    in Malaysia and markets in which the Group operates. While the Group has considered the potential
    financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation of these financial statements, the full
    financial impact to the Group remains uncertain. Accordingly, there is a possibility that factors not
    currently anticipated by management could occur in the future and therefore affect the recognition and
    measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities at the reporting date.

		Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty

		  Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key
    sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material
    adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year other than as
    disclosed below:-

    (a) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment

			  The estimates for the residual values, useful lives and related depreciation charges for the property,
     plant and equipment are based on commercial factors which could change significantly as a
     result of technical innovations and competitors’ actions in response to the market conditions. The
     Group anticipates that the residual values of its property, plant and equipment will be insignificant.
     As a result, residual values are not being taken into consideration for the computation of the
     depreciable amount. Changes in the expected level of usage and technological development
     could impact the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets, therefore future
     depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as
     at the reporting date is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

		(b) Write-down of Inventories

			  Reviews are made periodically by management on damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
     inventories. These reviews require judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates
     could result in revisions to the valuation of inventories. The carrying amount of inventories as at
     the reporting date is disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
56 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (Cont’d)

    (c) Impairment of Trade Receivables

			  The Group uses the simplified approach to estimate a lifetime expected credit loss allowance
     for all trade receivables. The Group develops the expected loss rates based on the payment
     profiles of past sales (including changes in the customer payment profile in response to the
     COVID-19 pandemic) and the corresponding historical credit losses, and adjusts for qualitative
     and quantitative reasonable and supportable forward-looking information. If the expectation is
     different from the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying amount of trade receivables.
     The carrying amount of trade receivables as at the reporting date are disclosed in Note 13 to the
     financial statements. 

    (d) Impairment of Non-Trade Receivables

			  The loss allowances for non-trade financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default
     and expected loss rates. The Group uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting
     appropriate inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the past payment trends, existing
     market conditions as well as forward-looking information incorporating the impact of COVID-19
     pandemic. The carrying amounts of other receivables and amounts owing by subsidiaries as at the
     reporting date are disclosed in Note 14 and 15 to the financial statements.

		(e) Income Taxes

			  There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination may be
     different from the initial estimate. The Group recognises tax liabilities based on its understanding
     of the prevailing tax laws and estimates of whether such taxes will be due in the ordinary course of
     business. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially
     recognised, such difference will impact the income tax expense and deferred tax balances in the
     period in which such determination is made.

    (f) Biological Assets

			  In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are
     required which include the expected number of agricultural produce, the expected selling prices,
     mortality rate, feed consumption rate and feed costs and other estimated costs over the remaining
     life of the biological assets, as well as the discount rates. Changes to any of these assumptions
     would affect the fair value of the biological assets. 

		  Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies

		  Management believes that there are no instances of application of critical judgement in applying Group’s
    accounting policies which will have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
    statements other than as disclosed below: -

    (a) Classification between Investment Properties and Owner-occupied Properties

			  Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation
     and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
     administrative purposes. If these portions could be sold separately (or leased out separately under
     a finance lease), the Group accounts for the portions separately. If the portions could not be sold
     separately, the property is an investment property only if an insignificant portion is held for use in
     the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
                                                                       57 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies (Cont’d)

    (b) Lease Terms

			  Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Group before the end of the non-
     cancellable contract period. In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and
     circumstances including the past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset if
     an option to extend is not taken. An extension options is only included in the lease term if the lease
     is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

		(c) Contingent Liabilities

			  The recognition and measurement for contingent liabilities is based on management’s view of the
     expected outcome on contingencies after consulting legal counsel for litigation cases and experts,
     for matters in the ordinary course of business. Furthermore, the directors are of the view that the
     chances of the financial institutions to call upon the corporate guarantees issued by the Company
     are remote.

4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

		  The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
    made up to the end of the reporting period.

		  Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed
    to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those
    returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control
    only when such rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
    when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of
    the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.

		  Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group up to the effective
    date on which control ceases, as appropriate.

		  Intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Intragroup
    losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements.
    Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency
    of accounting policies with those of the Group.

		(a) Business Combinations

			  Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. Under the acquisition
     method, the consideration transferred for acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets
     transferred, liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group at the acquisition
     date. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from
     a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs, other than the costs to issue
     debt or equity securities, are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.

			  In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are
     remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised
     in profit or loss.

			  Non-controlling interests in the acquiree may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-
     controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at
     the date of acquisition. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction
     basis.
58 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)

		(b) Non-controlling Interests

			  Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated statement of financial
     position, separately from the equity attributable to owners of the Company. Profit or loss and each
     component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to
     the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests
     even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. 

		(c) Changes in Ownership Interests in Subsidiaries Without Change of Control

			  All changes in the parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
     are accounted for as equity transactions. Any difference between the amount by which the non-
     controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of consideration paid or received is recognised
     directly in equity of the Group.

		(d) Loss of Control

			  Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group recognises any gain or loss on disposal in profit
     or loss which is calculated as the difference between:-

			  (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any
             retained interest in the former subsidiary; and

			  (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the former
             subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.

			  Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the former subsidiary
     are accounted for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities
     were disposed of (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained profits). The
     fair value of any investments retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is
     regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under MFRS 9 or, when
     applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.

4.3 GOODWILL

		  Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The carrying value of goodwill
    is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amount may be impaired. The impairment value of goodwill is recognised immediately
    in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.

		  Under the acquisition method, any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in
    the business combination, the amount of non-controlling interests recognised and the fair value of the
    Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net fair value of the acquiree’s
    identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition is recorded as goodwill.

		  Where the latter amount exceeds the former, after reassessment, the excess represents a bargain
    purchase gain and is recognised in profit or loss immediately.

		  In respect of equity-accounted associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying
    amount of the investment and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset,
    including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the equity-accounted associates.
                                                    59 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES

		  (a) Functional and Presentation Currency

			  The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the currency of the
     primary economic environment in which the entity operates, which is the functional currency.

			  The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the
     Company’s functional and presentation currency.

    (b) Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances

			  Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the respective functional currencies on initial
     recognition, using the exchange rates at the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities at
     the end of the reporting period are translated at the exchange rates ruling as of that date. Non-
     monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates that existed when the values
     were determined. All exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.

		(c) Foreign Operations

			  Assets and liabilities of foreign operations (including any goodwill and fair value adjustments arising
     on acquisition) are translated to the Group’s presentation currency at the exchange rates at the end
     of the reporting period. Income, expenses and other comprehensive income of foreign operations
     are translated at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. All exchange differences arising
     from translation are taken directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity;
     attributed to the owners of the Company and non-controlling interests, as appropriate.

			  Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of foreign operations are treated
     as assets and liabilities of the foreign operations and are recorded in the functional currency of the
     foreign operations and translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period.

			  On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign
     subsidiary, or a partial disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign
     operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in an associate that includes a foreign operation of
     which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), all of the exchange differences accumulated
     in equity in respect of that foreign operation attributable to the owners of the Company are
     reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. The portion that relates to non-
     controlling interests is derecognised but is not reclassified to profit or loss.

			  In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that does not result in the Group losing
     control over the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are
     reattributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in profit or loss. When the Group
     disposes of only part of its investment in an associate that includes a foreign operation while
     retaining significant influence, the proportionate share of the accumulative exchange differences
     is reclassified to profit or loss.

			  In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of an intragroup loan is neither planned
     nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, the exchange differences arising from translating such
     monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in the foreign operation and are
     recognised in other comprehensive income.

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		  Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when the
    Group has become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
60 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

		  Financial instruments are classified as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity instruments in
    accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and their definitions in MFRS 132. Interest,
    dividends, gains and losses relating to a financial instrument classified as a liability are reported as an
    expense or income. Distributions to holders of financial instruments classified as equity are charged
    directly to equity.

		  Financial instruments are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends to
    settle either on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

		  A financial instrument is recognised initially at its fair value (other than trade receivables without significant
    financing component which are measured at transaction price as defined in MFRS15 at inception).
    Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial instrument (other
    than a financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss) are added to/deducted from the fair value
    on initial recognition, as appropriate. Transaction costs on the financial instrument at fair value through
    profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

		  Financial instruments recognised in the statements of financial position are disclosed in the individual
    policy statement associated with each item.

    (a) Financial Assets

			  All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised or
     fair value (through profit or loss, or other comprehensive income), depending on the classification
     of the financial assets.

			Debt Instruments

			  (i) Amortised Cost

				  The financial asset is held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows
      represent solely payments of principal and interest. Interest income is recognised by
      applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset. When
      the asset has subsequently become credit-impaired, the interest income is recognised by
      applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset.

				  The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial
      asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate
      is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or
      received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other
      premiums or discounts), excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the
      financial asset or a shorter period (where appropriate). 

			  (ii) Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income

				  The financial asset is held for both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial
      asset, where the asset’s cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
      Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive income and
      accumulated in the fair value reserve, except for the recognition of impairment, interest
      income and foreign exchange difference which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
      Interest income is calculated using the effective interest rate method.

			  (iii) Fair Value through Profit or Loss

				  All other financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through
      other comprehensive income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The fair
      value changes do not include interest or dividend income.
                                                                       61 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

		(a) Financial Assets (Cont’d)

			Debt Instruments (cont’d)

			    The Group reclassifies debt instruments when and only when its business model for managing
       those assets change.

			Equity Instruments

			    All equity investments are subsequent measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in
       profit or loss except where the Group has made an irrevocable election to present the subsequent
       changes in fair value in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve at
       initial recognition.

			    The designation at fair value through other comprehensive income is not permitted if the equity
       investment is either held for trading or is designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a
       measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise.

			    Dividend income from this category of financial assets is recognised in profit or loss when the
       Group’s right to receive payment is established unless the dividends clearly represent a recovery
       of part of the cost of the equity investments.
		(b)
       Financial Liabilities

			    (i) Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

				   Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are either
       held for trading or are designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or
       recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise. The changes in fair value of these
       financial liabilities are recognise in profit or loss.

			    (ii) Other Financial Liabilities

				   Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus directly attributable
       transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
       method.

				   The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial
       liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest
       rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and
       points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction
       costs and other premiums or discounts), through the expected life of the financial liability or
       a shorter period (where appropriate).

		(c) Equity Instruments

			    Equity instruments classified as equity are measured initially at cost and are not remeasured
       subsequently.

			    (i) Ordinary Shares

				   Ordinary shares are classified as equity and recorded at the proceeds received, net of
       directly attributable transaction costs.

				   Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as liabilities when approved for appropriation.
 
62 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

		  (c) Equity Instruments (Cont’d)

			  (ii) Treasury Shares

				  When the Company’s own shares recognised as equity are bought back, the amount of the
      consideration paid, including all costs directly attributable, are recognised as a deduction
      from equity. Own shares purchased that are not subsequently cancelled are classified as
      treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. No gain or loss is
      recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.

				  Where treasury shares are reissued by resale, the difference between the sales consideration
      received and the carrying amount of the treasury shares is recognised in equity.

				  Where treasury shares are cancelled, their costs are transferred to retained profits.

    (d) Derecognition

			  A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to the
     cash flows from the financial asset expire or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially
     all risk and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. On derecognition of a financial
     asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and
     the sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on
     derecognition of a debt instrument classified as fair value through other comprehensive income,
     the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the fair value reserve is reclassified from
     equity to profit or loss. In contrast, there is no subsequent reclassification of the fair value reserve
     to profit or loss following the derecognition of an equity investment.

			  A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
     in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
     difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to
     another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities
     assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.

		  (e) Financial Guarantee Contracts

			  A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
     reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specific debtor fails to make payment when due
     in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

			  Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as liabilities at fair value, net of transaction
     costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial guarantee contracts are recognised as income
     in profit or loss over the period of the guarantee or, when there is no specific contractual period,
     recognised in profit or loss upon discharge of the guarantee. If the debtor fails to make payment
     relating to a financial guarantee contract when it is due and the Company, as the issuer, is required
     to reimburse the holder for the associated loss, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount
     of the credit loss determined in accordance with the expected credit loss model and the amount
     initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.

4.6 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

		  Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the Company, and
    are reviewed for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. The cost of the investments includes transaction
    costs.

		  On the disposal of the investments in subsidiaries, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
    the carrying amount of the investments is recognised in profit or loss.
                                               63 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.7 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES

		  An associate is an entity in which the Group and the Company have a long-term equity interest and
    where it exercises significant influence over the financial and operating policies.

		  Investments in associates are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the Company, and
    are reviewed for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable. The cost of the investment includes transaction
    costs.

		  The investment in an associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity
    method based on the financial statements of the associate made up to 31 December 2020. The Group’s
    share of the post-acquisition profits and other comprehensive income of the associate is included in the
    consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, after adjustment if any, to align
    the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences up to
    the effective date on which significant influence ceases or when the investment is classified as held for
    sale. The Group’s interest in the associate is carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at
    cost plus the Group’s share of the post-acquisition retained profits and reserves. The cost of investment
    includes transaction costs.

		  When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that
    interest is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that
    the Group has an obligation. The interest in the associate is the carrying amount of the investment in the
    associate determined using the equity method together with any long-term interests that, in substance,
    form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate.

		  Unrealised gains or losses on transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the
    extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless cost cannot be
    recovered.

		  When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate and the retained interest in the
    former associate is a financial asset, the Group measures the retained interest at fair value at that date
    and the fair value is regarded as the initial carrying amount of the financial asset in accordance with
    MFRS 9. Furthermore, the Group also reclassifies its share of the gain or loss previously recognised in
    other comprehensive income of that associate to profit or loss when the equity method is discontinued.

4.8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

		  All items of property, plant and equipment, are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that
    are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and other costs directly attributable to bringing the
    asset to working condition for its intended use.

		  Subsequent to initial recognition, all property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and any impairment losses.

		  Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as
    appropriate, only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated
    with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying
    amount of parts that are replaced is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
    plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
64 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

		  Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is charged to profit
    or loss (unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset) on a straight-line method to write
    off the depreciable amount of the assets over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation of an asset does
    not cease when the asset becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated.
    The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:-

		  Leasehold land                           Over the lease periods of 14 to 906 years
		  Buildings                                2% - 5%
		  Furniture, fittings and equipment        10% - 20%
		  Coldroom, plant and machinery            10% - 20%
		  Motor vehicles                           20%
		  Renovation                               10% - 20%

		  Capital work-in-progress included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as these assets
    are not yet available for use.

		  The depreciation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at
    the end of each reporting period to ensure that the amounts, method and periods of depreciation are
    consistent with previous estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic
    benefits embodied in the items of the property, plant and equipment. Any changes are accounted for as
    a change in estimate.

		  When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
    accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

		  An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
    benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising from derecognition of the asset, being the
    difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount, is recognised in profit or loss.
    The revaluation reserve included in equity is transferred directly to retained profits on retirement or
    disposal of the asset.

4.9 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		  Investment properties are properties which are owned or right-to-use asset held to earn rental income
    or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the
    production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

		  Investment properties which are owned are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that
    is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The right-of-use asset held under
    a lease contract that meets the definition of investment property is measured initially similarly as other
    right-of-use assets.

		  Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
    and impairment losses, if any.

		  Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    investment properties. The estimated useful lives of the investment properties are within 59 years to 99
    years.

		  Investment properties are derecognised when they have either been disposed of or when the investment
    property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future benefit is expected from its disposal.

		  On the derecognition of an investment property, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and
    the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.

		  Transfers are made to or from investment property only when there is a change in use. All transfers do
    not change the carrying amount of the property reclassified.
                                               65 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.10 LEASES

		  The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Group
    recognises a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements
    in which it is the lessee, except for low-value assets and short-term leases with 12 months or less. For
    these leases, the Group recognises the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line
    method over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time
    pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.

		  The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The
    right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property are presented in the statements
    of financial position within property, plant and equipment and the associated lease liabilities are presented
    as separate line item in the statements of financial position.

		  The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost includes the initial amount of the corresponding
    lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
    initial direct costs incurred, less any incentives received.
		
    The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
    impairment losses, and adjustment for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The depreciation starts
    from the commencement date of the lease. If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the
    Group or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects that the Group expects to exercise a purchase option,
    the related right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the
    Group depreciates the right-of-use asset to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset
    or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined on the
    same basis as those property, plant and equipment.

		  The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
    the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily
    determined, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate.

		  The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
    remeasured when there is a change in the future lease payments (other than lease modification that
    is not accounted for as a separate lease) with the corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying
    amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recognised in profit or loss if the carrying amount has been
    reduced to zero.

4.11 INVENTORIES

		  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs is determined on the weighted
    average cost method and comprises the purchase price, production or conversion costs and incidentals
    incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

		  Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the
    estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

4.12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

		  Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank balances, demand deposits and short-term,
    highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject
    to an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturity periods of three months or less. For
    the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank
    overdrafts.
66 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

   4.13 IMPAIRMENT

		(a) Impairment of Financial Assets

			  The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt
     instruments that are measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, as well as on financial
     guarantee contracts.

			  The expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are
     due to the Group in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to
     receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.

			  The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit
     risk since initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group always recognises
     lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables using the simplified approach. The expected
     credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s
     historical credit loss experience and are adjusted for forward-looking information (including time
     value of money where appropriate).

			  For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses when
     there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit
     risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group
     measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12‑month expected
     credit losses.

			  The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial instruments with
     a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account, except
     for investments in debt instruments that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
     income, for which the loss allowance is recognised in other comprehensive income and
     accumulated in the fair value reserve, and does not reduce the carrying amount of the financial
     asset in the statement of financial position.

   (b) Impairment of Non-financial Assets

			  The carrying values of assets, other than those to which MFRS 136 - Impairment of Assets does not
     apply, are reviewed at the end of each reporting period for impairment when an annual impairment
     assessment is compulsory or there is an indication that the assets might be impaired. Impairment
     is measured by comparing the carrying values of the assets with their recoverable amounts.
     When the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is written down
     to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss shall be recognised. The recoverable amount
     of an asset is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, which is
     measured by reference to discounted future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
     current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Where
     it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group determines
     the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

			  An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Any impairment loss recognised in
     respect of a cash-generating unit is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill
     allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets
     in the cash-generating unit on a pro rata basis.

			  In respect of assets other than goodwill, and when there is a change in the estimates used to
     determine the recoverable amount, a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of an
     asset is treated as a reversal of the previous impairment loss and is recognised to the extent
     of the carrying amount of the asset that would have been determined (net of amortisation and
     depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised. The reversal is recognised in profit or loss
     immediately.
                                               67 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.14 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS

		            Biological assets are measured on initial recognition and at the end of each reporting period at their fair
              value less costs to sell with change in fair value less costs to sell recognised in the profit or loss for the
              period in which it arises.

		            Costs to sell include all costs that would be necessary to sell the assets, including costs necessary to get
              the assets to market but excludes finance costs and income taxes.

		            Agricultural produce is the harvested product of the Group’s biological assets and is measured at fair
              value less cost to sell at the point of harvest. Such measurement is the cost at that date when transferring
              the harvested product to inventory.
        4.15
              PROVISIONS

		            Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
              of past events, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be
              required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions
              are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where
              the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the estimated
              expenditure required to settle the obligation. The discount rate shall be pre-tax rate that reflects current
              market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of
              the discount is recognised as interest expense in profit or loss.

4.16 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

		(a) Short-term Benefits

			           Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and bonuses are measured on an undiscounted basis and
              are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the associated services are rendered by
              employees of the Group.

              (b) Defined Contribution Plans

			           The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit or loss in the
              period to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further
              liability in respect of the defined contribution plans.

              (c) Defined Benefit Plans

			           The Group makes contributions to the Company’s retirement benefit plan, an unfunded defined
              benefit plan.

			           The liability or asset recognised in the statements of financial position in respect of defined benefit
              plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value
              of plan assets.

			           The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit
              method by independent actuaries annually, determined by discounting the estimated future
              benefits that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, using market yields of
              private corporate debt securities which have currency and terms to maturity approximating the
              terms of the related obligation.

			           The Group determines the net interest expense or income on the net defined liability or asset
              for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at
              the beginning of the annual reporting period to the then net defined liability or asset, taking into
              account any changes in the net defined benefit liability or asset during the period as a result of
              contributions and benefit payments. The net interest expense or income is recognised in profit or
              loss.
68 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.16 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONT’D)

    (c) Defined Benefit Plans (Cont’d)

			  Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial
     assumptions are recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive
     income and will not reclassified to profit or loss.

			  When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in
     benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in
     profit or loss.

			  The Group recognises gains or losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the
     settlement occurs.

4.17 INCOME TAXES

		(a) Current Tax

			  Current tax assets and liabilities are expected amount of income tax recoverable or payable to the
     taxation authorities.

			  Current taxes are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
     enacted at the end of the reporting period and are recognised in profit or loss except to the
     extent that the tax relates to items recognised outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive
     income or directly in equity).

		(b) Deferred Tax

			  Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for all temporary differences other than those
     that arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which
     is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit
     nor taxable profit.

			  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
     period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates that have been
     enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.

			  Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses
     and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
     against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can
     be utilised. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting
     period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be
     realised.

		  Current and deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in
    profit or loss, other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax arising from a business
    combination is adjusted against goodwill or negative goodwill.

		  Current tax assets and liabilities or deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally
    enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes
    relate to the same taxable entity (or on different tax entities but they intend to settle current tax assets
    and liabilities on a net basis) and the same taxation authority.
                                               69 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

		            A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will only
              be confirmed by the occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of
              the Group. It can also be a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised because it
              is not probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required or the amount of obligation cannot
              be measured reliably.

		            A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, unless
              the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. When a change in the probability of an outflow
              occurs so that the outflow is probable, it will then be recognised as a provision.

4.19 OPERATING SEGMENTS

		            An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
              earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any
              of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the
              chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and
              assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.

4.20 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARES

		            Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit or loss attributable to
              ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
              during the reporting period, adjusted for own shares held.

		            Diluted earnings per ordinary share is determined by adjusting the consolidated profit or loss attributable
              to ordinary shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares
              outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

4.21 BORROWING COSTS

		            Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying
              asset are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are ready for
              their intended use or sale. The capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended during extended periods
              in which active development is interrupted. The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of
              borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to
              borrowings that are outstanding during the financial year, other than borrowings made specifically for the
              purpose of financing a specific project-in-progress, in which case the actual borrowing costs incurred
              on that borrowings less any investment income on temporary investment of that borrowings will be
              capitalised.

		            All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss as expenses in the period in which they are
              incurred.
 
        4.22  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

		            Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
              transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price
              is directly observable or estimated using a valuation technique. The measurement assumes that the
              transaction takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most
              advantageous market. For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market
              participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by
              selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
70 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.22 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (CONT’D)

		  For financial reporting purposes, the fair value measurements are analysed into level 1 to level 3 as
    follows:-

		  Level 1:  Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liability that
              the entity can access at the measurement date;

		  Level 2:  Inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for
              the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and

		  Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

		  The transfer of fair value between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
    circumstances that caused the transfer.

4.23 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS

		  Revenue from contracts with customers is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract
    with a customer in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer net of sales and service
    tax, returns, rebates and discounts. The Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over
    a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of
    the asset. Depending on the substance of the contract, revenue is recognised when the performance
    obligation is satisfied, which may be at a point in time or over time.

		(a) Sale of Goods (Credit Sales)

			    Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to
       the customer, being when the goods have been delivered to the customer and upon its acceptance.
       Following delivery, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell
       the goods, and bears the risk of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.

			    A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the
       consideration is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is
       due.
		(b)
       Sales of Goods (Cash Sales)

			    Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to
       the customer, being at the point the customer purchases the goods at the retail outlets. Payment
       for the transaction is due immediately at the point the customer purchases the goods and takes
       delivery in outlet.

		(c) Services

			    Revenue is recognised upon the rendering of services and when the outcome of the transaction
       can be estimated reliably. In the event the outcome of the transaction could not be estimated
       reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent of the expenses incurred that are recoverable.
                                                                                         71 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)

4.24 OTHER INCOME

     (a) Interest Income

			  Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

		(b) Dividend Income

			  Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive dividend payment is
     established.

		(c) Rental Income

			  Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line method over the lease term.

     (d) Government Grant

			  Government grants are recognised at their fair value when there is reasonable assurance that
     they will be received and all conditions attached will be met.

			  Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised as deferred grant
     income in the statements of financial position and are amortised to profit or loss on a systematic
     basis over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

			

			 The Company

				 2020                                                                                    2019

				 RM                                                                                      RM

		 Unquoted shares, at cost					

		 - in Malaysia			                                                63,339,149            63,339,149
                                                                                         18,108,952
		 - outside Malaysia				 18,108,952
                                                                                         81,448,101
						

						 81,448,101

						

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-

			                        Principal Place        Percentage of

			                        of Business/           Issued Share

			                        Country of             Capital Held by

Name of Subsidiary         Incorporation          Parent           Principal Activities

				                                              2020 2019

				                                              %  %

Ableway Sdn. Bhd.               Malaysia          100 100          General trading and investment

							 holding

				

Ataskota Sdn. Bhd.              Malaysia          100 100          Selling, spawning and culturing

						 of prawns

				

CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.        Malaysia          100 100          Retailing in coldstorage products

				

CCK Fresh Mart (West            Malaysia          100 100          Leasing of building

		 Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
72 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

   The details of the subsidiaries are as follows (cont’d):-

			                                  Principal Place Percentage of

			                                   of Business/   Issued Share

			                                   Country of     Capital Held by

   Name of Subsidiary                 Incorporation           Parent  Principal Activities

				                                                 2020 2019

				                                                          %  %

				

   CCK Sea Products Industries        Malaysia       100 100          Culturing, processing and trading

		 (S) Sdn. Bhd. 					 of prawns

				

   Central Coldstorage Kuching        Malaysia       100 100          Retailing in coldstorage products,

		 Sdn. Bhd. 					 poultry processing, importer and

   						 distributor of frozen food

				

   C.S. Choice Food Industries        Malaysia       100 100          Manufacturing, processing,

		 Sdn. Bhd. 					 packing and distribution of meat

   						 and other food products

				

   Kin Eastern Frozen Food            Malaysia       100 100          Processing and selling of frozen

   Sdn. Bhd. 					 seafood and ice

   Kuok Sui Sea Products              Malaysia       100 100          Processing and exporting of

		 Industries (S) Sdn. Bhd. 					 sea products

				

   Pt. Adilmart^                      Indonesia      100 100          Retailing in coldstorage products

				

   Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia            100 100          Poultry breeding, hatching of

		 (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd.					 eggs and trading

				

   Hawker Time Food Hall              Malaysia       100 100          Food and beverage

		 Sdn. Bhd. #

				

   CCK Properties Sdn. Bhd.           Malaysia       100 100          Real property developers

   							 and investment holding

				

   Subsidiary of Ableway Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Angkutan Golden Plan Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia           100 100          Provision of transportation 		

   						 services

				

   Subsidiary of CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Mukah Seafoods Industries          Malaysia       100 78.1         Trading of seafood and

		 Sdn. Bhd. 					 coldstorage foodstuff

				

   Subsidiaries of Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

   Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.     Malaysia       100 100          Livestock breeding, egg laying

   						 and trading

				

   Zhang Agriculture Development Malaysia            100 100          Poultry farming and trading

		 Sdn. Bhd.

				

 
                                                                                         73 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows (cont’d):-

			                           Principal Place   Percentage of

			                           of Business/      Issued Share

			                           Country of        Capital Held by

Name of Subsidiary            Incorporation                Parent  Principal Activities

				                                            2020 2019

				                                                       %   %

Subsidiary of Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd.:-

				

Farm Land Supplies &          Malaysia          100 100            Provision of pharmaceutical 		

     Veterinary Services Sdn. Bhd. 					 supplies for chickens and

							 related services

				

Subsidiary of Pt. Adilmart:-

				

Pt. Central Coldstorage       Indonesia                    90  90  Dormant

		 Khatulistiwa^

^ These subsidiaries were audited by member firms of Crowe Global of which Crowe Malaysia PLT is a
        member.

# The auditors’ report on the financial statements of the subsidiary includes an a “Material Uncertainty
        Related to Going Concern” regarding the ability of the subsidiary to continue as a going concern in view
        of its capital deficiency position as at the end of the current reporting period. The financial statements
        were prepared on a going concern basis as the Company has undertaken to provide continued financial
        support to the subsidiary.

(a) In the previous financial year, the Company subscribed for 499,999 number of ordinary shares for a cash
        consideration of RM499,999, in a wholly-owned subsidiary, CCK Properties Sdn. Bhd.

        (b)  During the financial year, the Company acquired an additional 21.9% equity interests in Mukah Seafoods
             Industries Sdn. Bhd. for RM302,664 in cash, increasing its ownership from 78.1% to 100%. The carrying
             amount of Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn. Bhd.’s net assets in the Group’s financial statements was
		           RM1,497,946. The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of RM288,138 and a
             decrease in retained profits of RM14,526.

             The following summarises the effect of changes in equity interests in Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn.
             Bhd. that is attributable to the owners of the company:-

					 The Group

					 2020

					RM

					

			          Equity interest at 1 January					                                           1,011,140

			          Effect of increase in the Company’s ownership interest			                   302,664

			          Share of post acquisition profits				                                       184,142

								

			          Equity interest at 31 December				                                          1,497,946

								
74 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

		 (c) The non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period comprise the following:-

                                          Effective Equity

			                                       Interest                                 The Group

			                                       2020 2019                          2020                 2019

			                                       %    %                             RM                   RM

					

			 Mukah Seafoods Industries Sdn. Bhd.   -    21.9                                  -            288,138
                                                                             92,114                92,114
			 Pt. Central Coldstorage Khatulistiwa  10.0 10.0

						

						                                                                       92,114               380,252

						

		 (d) The summarised financial information (before intra-group elimination) for each subsidiary that has non-
                 controlling interests is as follows:-

		                                                                           Mukah Seafoods 		

		                                                                           Industries Sdn. Bhd.

					                                                                        2020                 2019

					                                                                        RM                   RM

					

		At 31 December

		   Non-current assets			                                                   344,804              433,461

		   Current assets			                                                       1,578,556            1,338,959

		   Non-current liabilities			                                              (264,004)            (323,899)

		   Current liabilities			                                                  (161,410)            (134,473)

						

		   Net assets			                                                           1,497,946            1,314,048

						

					

		Financial Year Ended 31 December				

		   Revenue			                                                              3,895,869            4,038,890

		   Profit for the financial year			                                        183,898              159,908

		   Total comprehensive income			                                           183,898              159,908

						

					

		   Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests		        -              35,068

		   Dividends paid to non-controlling interests			                                -              (87,704)

						

					

		   Net cash flows (for)/from operating activities			                       (107,495)            561,937

		   Net cash flows for investing activities			                                  (749)            (2,738)

		   Net cash flows for financing activities			                              (54,699)             (453,806)

						
                                                                                                   75 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)

		 (d) The summarised financial information (before intra-group elimination) for each subsidiary that has non-
                 controlling interests is as follows (cont’d):-

		                                                                           Pt. Central Coldstorage

		Khatulistiwa

					                                                                        2020                  2019

					                                                                        RM                    RM

					

		At 31 December

		   Non-current assets			                                                         -                         -

		   Current assets			                                                       1,096,580             1,127,147

		   Non-current liabilities			                                                    -                         -

		   Current liabilities			                                                  (249,059)             (256,002)

						

		   Net assets			                                                           847,521               871,145

						

					

		Financial Year Ended 31 December

		   Revenue			                                                                    -                         -

		   Loss for the financial year			                                                -               (1,260)

		   Total comprehensive income			                                                 -               (1,260)

						

					

		   Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests		        -                   (126)

		   Dividends paid to non-controlling interests			                                -                         -

						

					

		   Net cash flows from/(for) operating activities			                       23,624                (44,233)

		   Net cash flows from investing activities			                                   -                         -

		   Net cash flows from financing activities			                                   -                         -

						

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE

                                                 The Group                   The Company

			                                              2020            2019        2020                  2019

			RM                                                            RM          RM                    RM

							

Unquoted shares, at cost                      19,930,171         19,930,171  19,930,171            19,930,171

Share of post-acquisition profits,

		 net of dividend received                      9,757,728       6,556,288         -                         -

				

				                                          29,687,899         26,486,459  19,930,171            19,930,171

				

The details of the associate is as follows:-

			                                 Principal Place Effective Equity

Name of Associate                   of Business        Interest              Principal Activities

				                                             2020 2019

				                                                   %    %

				

Gold Coin Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.# Malaysia            27.20 27.20                 Manufacture and sale of animal

						 feeds and trading in feed grains

# The associate was audited by another firm of chartered accountants.
76 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONT’D)

		 (a) The summarised financial information (after any fair value adjustment at acquisition date) for each
                 associate that is material to the Group is as follows:-

		                                                     Gold Coin Sarawak

		                                                           Sdn. Bhd.

					                                                  2020                 2019

					                                                  RM                   RM

					

		At 31 December

		  Non-current assets			 12,961,000                                        10,995,000

		  Current assets			 134,540,000 140,244,000

		  Non-current liabilities			                         (2,456,000)          (771,000)

		  Current liabilities			 (47,860,000) (65,683,000)

						

		  Net assets			 97,185,000                                                84,785,000

		  Non-controlling interest			                        (1,032,000)          (402,000)

						

						 96,153,000 84,383,000

						

					

		Financial Year Ended 31 December				

		  Revenue			 328,717,000 318,482,000

		  Profit for the financial year			 23,770,000                             19,310,000

		  Total comprehensive income			 23,770,000                                19,310,000

						

					

		  Group’s share of profit for the financial year			  6,465,440            5,252,320

		  Group’s share of other comprehensive income			           -                    -

		  Dividend received			                               3,264,000                  -

						

					

		Reconciliation of Net Assets to Carrying Amount

		  Group’s share of net assets above			 26,153,616                         22,952,176

		  Goodwill			                                        3,534,283            3,534,283

						

		  Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in this associate		 29,687,899  26,486,459

						
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT								

							 Transfer from			

		                         At					                                           Investment Depreciation Exchange     At

		                         1.1.2020  Additions Disposals Derecognition Write-offs Properties Charges Differences 31.12.2020

The Group                  RM        RM          RM         RM     RM        RM     RM            RM              RM

											

2020											

											

Carrying Amount										

Owned assets											

Freehold land		 1,436,000                -           -          -      -         -      -                      - 1,436,000

Buildings		 47,782,554 1,196,109                     -          -      -     745,500 (4,118,434)  (77,012) 45,528,717

Furniture, fittings and

		 equipment		 6,699,528 3,485,956               (3,665)        - 		             - (1,707,001)    (6,263) 8,468,555

Coldroom, plant and

		 machinery		 48,857,927 8,403,162              (26,071)       -  (23,322)      - (9,875,456) (479,420) 46,856,820

Motor vehicles		 2,321,572 1,233,384             (81,943)       -      -         - (1,126,928)    (7,556) 2,338,529

Renovation		 4,056,691 2,647,707                     -          -      -         - (1,223,767)                 - 5,480,631

Electrical installation		  229,174   285,973         -          -      -         -  (35,874)                   -  479,273

Capital work in progress		 13,214,251 7,961,037      -          -      -         -      -         (221,765) 20,953,523

					

					 124,597,697 25,213,328                     (111,679)      -  (23,322)  745,500 (18,087,460) (792,016) 131,542,048

                                                                                                                             ANNUAL 77 REPORT
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                           78 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)								

							 Transfer from			

		                At					                                              Investment Depreciation Exchange     At

		                1.1.2020  Additions Disposals Derecognition Write-offs Properties Charges Differences 31.12.2020

The Group         RM        RM         RM         RM         RM        RM     RM          RM                RM

2020										

Right-of-use assets										

Leasehold land		 53,437,577 1,046,191          -      -          -         - (1,054,110) (332,972) 53,096,686

Buildings		 12,067,563 9,526,002               -  (575,348)      -         - (2,898,080)  (5,524) 18,114,613

Coldroom, plant and 											

		 machinery		    58,462    20,734             -      -          -         -  (41,510)                   -  37,686

Motor vehicles		  241,522       -              -      -          -         -  (72,456)                   -  169,066

											

					 65,805,124 10,592,927                    -  (575,348)      -         - (4,066,156) (338,496) 71,418,051

					

					 190,402,821 35,806,255           (111,679) (575,348)   (23,322)  745,500 (22,153,616) (1,130,512) 202,960,099

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)								

                                     1.1.2019           						

		                       As          Initial								

		                       Previously Application     As				                                    Reclassifi- Depreciation Exchange     At

		                       Reported of MFRS 16 Restated Additions Disposals Write-offs cations           Charges Differences 31.12.2019

The Group                RM          RM             RM       RM          RM         RM        RM       RM           RM              RM

										

2019										

										

Carrying Amount										

										

Owned assets										

Freehold land            936,000                 -  936,000      -           -          -         -        -                     -  936,000

Leasehold land           55,131,684 (55,131,684)        -        -           -          -         -        -                     -      -

Buildings                50,922,795              - 50,922,795 2,233,253      -          - (308,782) (5,123,037)     93,125 47,817,354

Furniture, fittings										

		 and equipment         6,944,100               - 6,944,100 1,599,680   (19,142)   (8,351) 182,570 (1,795,895)     6,232 6,909,194

Coldroom, plant										

		 and machinery         45,370,463              - 45,370,463 6,857,738  (47,899)   (10,905) 5,341,539 (9,342,527) 479,852 48,648,261

Motor vehicles           3,269,623 (313,978) 2,955,645       497,940     (77,876)       -     (10,000) (1,053,126)  8,989 2,321,572

Renovation               3,493,845               - 3,493,845 1,723,270   (35,035)   (26,192)      - (1,099,197)                  - 4,056,691

Electrical installation      -                   -      -    240,401         -          -         -    (11,227)                  -  229,174

Capital work-in-

		 progress              7,362,612               - 7,362,612 10,878,503      -          - (5,205,327)      -        178,463 13,214,251

				

				                     173,431,122 (55,445,662) 117,985,460 24,030,785 (179,952)  (45,448)      - (18,425,009) 766,661 124,132,497

										

                                                                                                                                              ANNUAL 79 REPORT
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                                            80 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)								

                         1.1.2019             						

		                As     Initial								

		                Previously Application  As				                                     Reclassifi- Depreciation Exchange     At

		                Reported of MFRS 16 Restated Additions Disposals Write-offs cations       Charges Differences 31.12.2019

The Group         RM     RM               RM       RM     RM               RM        RM     RM          RM                 RM

										

2019										

										

Right-of-use assets										

										

Leasehold land        - 55,131,684 55,131,684          -      -                -         - (1,544,033) 315,126 53,902,777

Buildings             - 14,150,171 14,150,171          -      -                -         - (2,082,608)                  - 12,067,563

Coldroom, plant										

		 and machinery      -  86,524           86,524       -      -                -         -  (28,062)                    -  58,462

Motor vehicles        -  313,978          313,978      -      -                -         -  (72,456)                    -  241,522

										

				                  - 69,682,357 69,682,357          -      -                -         - (3,727,159) 315,126 66,270,324

				

				              173,431,122 14,236,695 187,667,817 24,030,785 (179,952)  (45,448)      - (22,152,168) 1,081,787 190,402,821

				

										
                                                                           81 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

						                                                        Accumulated

				                               At          Accumulated Impairment      Carrying

				                               Cost        Depreciation   Losses       Amount

The Group                          RM          RM             RM           RM

				

2020 			

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                      1,630,091       -          (194,091)    1,436,000

Buildings                          92,585,947 (47,057,230)            - 45,528,717

Furniture, fittings and equipment  30,958,126 (22,489,571)            -    8,468,555

Coldroom, plant and machinery      136,544,210 (89,687,390)           - 46,856,820

Motor vehicles                     19,205,955 (16,867,426)            -    2,338,529

Renovation                         18,221,828 (12,741,197)            -    5,480,631

Electrical installation            526,374     (47,101)               -    479,273

Capital work-in-progress           20,953,523      -                  - 20,953,523

				

				                               320,626,054 (188,889,915)  (194,091) 131,542,048

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                     62,137,842  (8,496,061)    (545,095) 53,096,686

Buildings                          23,094,315  (4,979,702)            - 18,114,613

Coldroom, plant and machinery      107,258     (69,572)               -    37,686

Motor vehicles                     313,978     (144,912)              -    169,066

				

				                               85,653,393 (13,690,247)    (545,095) 71,418,051

				

				                               406,279,447 (202,580,162)  (739,186) 202,960,099

				

2019 			

				

Owned assets				

Freehold land                      1,130,091       -          (194,091)    936,000

Buildings                          90,628,600 (42,811,246)            - 47,817,354

Furniture, fittings and equipment  27,742,531 (20,833,337)            -    6,909,194

Coldroom, plant and machinery      129,185,985 (80,537,724)           - 48,648,261

Motor vehicles                     18,638,942 (16,317,370)            -    2,321,572

Renovation                         15,574,121 (11,517,430)            -    4,056,691

Electrical installation            240,401     (11,227)               -    229,174

Capital work-in-progress           13,214,251      -                  - 13,214,251

				

				                               296,354,922 (172,028,334)  (194,091) 124,132,497

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land                     61,885,927  (7,496,772)    (486,378) 53,902,777

Buildings                          14,150,171  (2,082,608)            - 12,067,563

Coldroom, plant and machinery      86,524      (28,062)               -    58,462

Motor vehicles                     313,978     (72,456)               -    241,522

				

				                               76,436,600  (9,679,898)    (486,378) 66,270,324

				

				                               372,791,522 (181,708,232)  (680,469) 190,402,821

				
82 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

					                                                                  At              Depreciation     At

					                                                              1.1.2020            Charges          31.12.2020

The Company		 RM                                                                       RM               RM

				

2020 			

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                                            11,105          (3,838)          7,267

Renovation		                                                           3,639           (532)            3,107

					

     		                                                                14,744          (4,370)          10,374

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                                       8,821,587       (156,000)        8,665,587

					

					                                                                  8,836,331       (160,370)        8,675,961

					

				

		                                              1.1.2019           					

		                                   As         Initial				

		                                   Previously Application  As		                      Depreciation     At

		                                   Reported of MFRS 16 Restated      Additions       Charges 31.12.2019

The Company                          RM         RM           RM              RM        RM               RM

									

2019							

			

Owned assets							

Leasehold land                       8,977,587 (8,977,587)         -              -                  -            -

Equipment                            15,033               -  15,033               750      (4,678)      11,105

Renovation                           4,171                -  4,171                -        (532)        3,639

			

			                                  8,996,791 (8,977,587)   19,204               750      (5,210)      14,744

									

Right-of-use assets							

Leasehold land                           - 8,977,587 8,977,587                    -    (156,000) 8,821,587

			

			                                  8,996,791            - 8,996,791             750  (161,210) 8,836,331
			

					                                                                  At              Accumulated      Carrying

					                                                                  Cost            Depreciation     Amount

The Company		 RM                                                                       RM               RM

				

2020				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                                            56,558          (49,291)         7,267

Renovation		                                                           5,324           (2,217)          3,107

					

					                                                                  61,882          (51,508)         10,374

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                                                       9,401,979       (736,392)        8,665,587

					

					                                                                  9,463,861       (787,900)        8,675,961

					
                                                                    83 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

					                                      At         Accumulated   Carrying

					                                      Cost       Depreciation  Amount

The Company		 RM                                      RM             RM

				

2019				

				

Owned assets				

Equipment		                                56,558     (45,453)       11,105

Renovation		                                   5,324  (1,685)        3,639

					

					                                      61,882     (47,138)       14,744

				

Right-of-use assets				

Leasehold land		                           9,401,979  (580,392)     8,821,587

					

					                                      9,463,861  (627,530)     8,836,331

					

(a) The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment pledged to licensed banks as security for banking
        facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements is as follows:-

		                                                        The Group

					                                                 2020           2019

					                                                 RM             RM

			

			 Leasehold land                         		         15,937,669    14,237,704
                                                      12,346,021    10,438,157
			 Buildings                              		

						

						                                                28,283,690 24,675,861

						

(b) Included in the assets of the Group were freehold lands with a total carrying amount of RM936,000 (2019
        – RM936,000) which were held in trust by a third party.

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee

			  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
     equipment for its operational purposes:-

		   i.) Leasehold land

			   The Group made upfront payment to secure the right-of-use of leasehold lands for a lease periods
      ranging from 14 to 906 years. Certain leasehold lands is pledged to licensed banks as security for
      banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in (a) above. These is no option to purchase
      the leasehold land at the expiry of the lease periods.

		   ii.) Buildings

			   The Group leases a number of buildings which are used as retail stores that run between 1 year
      to 10 years, with an option to renew the leases upon the expiry of the respective lease terms.
      The lease agreements do not impose any covenant other than the ownership rights in the leased
      assets that are held by lessor. The Group is restricted from assigning and subleasing the leased
      assets without the written consent of the lessor and the leased assets may not be used as security
      for borrowing purposes.

			   Certain buildings of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rentals
      payable monthly. Each of the leases contains an initial non-cancellable period of 1 year and the
      subsequent renewals are negotiated separately on a contract by contract basis.
84 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

(c) Leases – the Group as a lessee (Cont’d)

			  The Group leases leasehold land, buildings, motor vehicles, coldroom, plant and machinery and other
     equipment for its operational purposes:- (Cont’d)

		   iii.) Motor vehicle

			  The motor vehicle has been leased under hire purchase arrangement. The lease is secured by the
     leased assets with lease term of 3 years and bear effective interest rate of 3.22%. The Group has
     an option to purchase the asset at the expiry of the lease period at an insignificant amount.

		   iv.) Coldroom, plant and equipment

			  The Group leases 38 ponds for a lease period of 3 years with an option to renew the leases upon
     the expiry of the lease terms. The lease agreement do not impose any convenants other than the
     ownership rights in the leased assets that are held by the lessor.

		   v.) Other equipment

				The Group also leases photocopier machines. The Group determines that these assets are low
                         value when it is new, regardless of the age of the assets being leased. The Group elected not to
                         recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these assets.

(d) Leases – the Group as an intermediate lessor

			  The Group subleases out buildings to third parties for monthly lease payments for a period ranging
     from 1 to 3 years and the subsequent renewals are renegotiated on a contract by contract basis. The
     sublease periods do not form part of the remaining lease terms under the head leases and accordingly,
     the subleases are classified as operating leases.

			  The Group does not require a financial guarantee. Instead, the Group requires 1 to 3 months of advance
     payments from the lessees. The leases do not include residual value guarantee and variable lease
     payments.

			  The lease income of the Group and of the Company, recognised during the financial year were RM
     52,480 and RM NIL respectively.
                                                                                      85 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

		                                                                             The Group

					                                                                      2020           2019

					                                                                      RM             RM

			

Cost:-			

At 1 January                                  		 18,591,414 18,591,414

Transferred to property, plant and equipment  		                           (900,000)            -

						

At 31 December                                		 17,691,414 18,591,414

			

Accumulated depreciation:-			

At 1 January                                  		                           1,506,535  1,379,834

Depreciation during the financial year        		                           126,700        126,701

Transferred to property, plant and equipment  		                           (154,500)            -

			

At 31 December                                		                           1,478,735  1,506,535

						

						 16,212,679 17,084,879

						

			

Represented by:-			

Freehold land                                 		 11,075,000 11,075,000

Leasehold land                                		                           3,352,228  3,403,555

Buildings                                     		                           1,785,451  2,606,324

						

At 31 December                                		 16,212,679 17,084,879

						

     		

Fair value                                    		 20,750,000 18,475,000

						

(a) The investment properties of the Group are leased to customers under operating leases with rental
        payable monthly. The leases contain initial non-cancellable periods of 1-5 years.

			 The undiscounted operating lease payments receivable are as follows:-

		                                                                             The Group

					                                                                      2020           2019

					                                                                      RM             RM

			

			 Within one year                           		                           45,600         405,600
                                                                            4,800         405,600
			 Between 1 and 2 years                     		                            4,800         360,000

			 Between 2 and 3 years                     		

						

						                                                                     55,200     1,171,200

						

(b) The leasehold land and buildings have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking facilities
        granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 21 to the financial statements.

(c) The fair values of the investment properties are within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and are arrived
        at by reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties and are performed by
        registered valuers having appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the
        locations and category of properties being valued. The most significant input into this valuation approach
        is the price per square foot of comparable properties.
86 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

9. GOODWILL

		                                                                           The Group
					
					                                                                    2020           2019

                                                                         RM             RM

Cost:-			

At 1 January/31 December                          		                     380,224        380,224

						

Goodwill acquired through business combination has been allocated to the Group’s trading and retailing cash-
generating units.

10. DEFERRED TAX

					                                                         Recognised		

				                                              Recognised in other 		

				                                              in profit comprehensive Exchange

			                                  At 1.1.2020  or loss     income     differences At 31.12.2020

The Group                            RM           RM          RM         RM             RM

					

2020					

					

Deferred tax liabilities					

Property,plant and equipment         10,259,002 1,596,177             -             - 11,855,179

			

					

Deferred tax assets					

Inventory                            (6,455)      1,431               -             -   (5,024)

Provision for employee benefits      (193,991)    26,076          300        (8,548) (176,163)

Receivables                          (24,259)     (4,722)             -             -   (28,981)

Lease liabilities                        -            (133)           -             -   (133)

Unused tax losses and

		 unabsobed capital allowance       (1,760,263) (1,709,579)          -             - (3,469,842)

Unrealised loss on foreign

		 exchange                          (1,400)               -          -        (228)    (1,628)

					

			                                  (1,986,368) (1,686,927)      300        (8,776) (3,681,771)

			

			                                  8,272,634    (90,750)        300        (8,776) 8,173,408

			
                                                                                     87 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

10. DEFERRED TAX (CONT’D)

					                                                     Recognised		

				                                          Recognised in other 		

				                                          in profit comprehensive Exchange

			                              At 1.1.2019  or loss     income     differences     At 31.12.2019
                                                                                            RM
The Group                        RM           RM              RM     RM

					

2019

Deferred tax liabilities					

Property,plant and equipment     11,082,044   (823,042)           -               - 10,259,002

Unrealised gain on foreign

		 exchange                          552               -          -      (552)           -

			

			                              11,082,596   (823,042)           -      (552) 10,259,002

					

Deferred tax assets					

Inventory                        (6,258)          (197)           -               -  (6,455)

Provision for employee benefits  (168,930)    (45,804)        9,339      11,404 (193,991)

Receivables                      (20,114)     (4,145)             -               -  (24,259)

Unused tax losses and

		 unabsobed capital allowance   (2,077,446)  317,183             -               - (1,760,263)

Unrealised loss on foreign

		 exchange                          -                 -          -      (1,400)     (1,400)

					

			                              (2,272,748)  267,037         9,339  10,004 (1,986,368)

			

			                              8,809,848    (556,005)       9,339      9,452 8,272,634

			

					                                                             Recognised in 		

			                              		                    At 1.1.2020 profit or loss At 31.12.2020

		 The Company			                                         RM         RM              RM

							

2020						

Deferred tax liabilities						

Property,plant and equipment			 1,624,653                            (31,498) 1,593,155

					

							

Deferred tax assets						

Unused tax losses and unabsobed capital allowance		 (149,630)        99,510          (50,120)

					

					 1,475,023                                                      68,012 1,543,035

					

							

						                                                            Recognised in 		

					                                                  At 1.1.2019 profit or loss At 31.12.2019

		 The Company			                                         RM         RM              RM

							

2019						

Deferred tax liabilities						

Property,plant and equipment			 1,656,318                            (31,665) 1,624,653

					

							

Deferred tax assets						

Unused tax losses and unabsobed capital allowance		 (363,786)        214,156         (149,630)

					

					 1,292,532                                                      182,491 1,475,023

					
88 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

10. DEFERRED TAX (CONT’D)

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax relates to the same taxable entity and the
same taxation authority. The amounts determined after appropriate offsetting are included in the statements of
financial position as follows:-

                                     The Group                The Company

			                                  2020       2019          2020           2019

			RM                                           RM            RM             RM

						

Deferred tax liabilities             9,766,525  9,661,156     1,543,035      1,475,023

Deferred tax assets                  (1,593,117) (1,388,522)              -        -

			

			                                  8,173,408  8,272,634     1,543,035      1,475,023

			

						

No deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of the following items as it is not probable that taxable profits

of the subsidiaries will be available against which the carry forward tax losses and tax credits can be utilised:-

		                                                                The Group
					
					                                                         2020           2019

                                                              RM             RM

        Unused tax losses			                                  350,000        371,000
        Other temporary differences			                         13,271                 -
					
        				                                                  363,271        371,000
						

The unused tax losses are allowed to be utilised for 7 consecutive years of assessment while the unabsorbed
capital allowances can be carried forward indefinitely.

11. INVENTORIES                                                   The Group
		
					                                                         2020           2019
					
                                                              RM             RM

At cost:-					

Trading goods			 46,328,114 38,781,366

Raw materials			                                              3,587,903 10,592,168

Consumable stores			                                          5,584,913      6,469,281

					

					 55,500,930 55,842,815

						

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS

				                                            At            Change in            At
                                                                             31.12.2020
				                                            1.1.2020      fair value
                                                                                  RM
				                                            RM            RM
                                                                               9,433,143
At fair value less costs to sell			                                            1,889,574
                                                                               1,028,562
			
                                                                                  578,835
Broiler breeders                                8,751,414     681,729          3,377,555

Broilers                                        1,674,679     214,895         16,307,669

Hatching eggs                                   1,502,710     (474,148)

Prawns                                          490,564       88,271

Layers		                                        2,904,495     473,060

				

				 15,323,862                                               983,807

				
                                                                                               89 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

			

				                                                           At       Change in                    At
                                                                                               31.12.2019
				                                            1.1.2019                fair value
                                                                                                    RM
				                                                           RM            RM
                                                                                                 8,751,414
At fair value less costs to sell			                                                              1,674,679
                                                                                                 1,502,710
			
                                                                                                    490,564
Broiler breeders                                8,341,451                    409,963             2,904,495

Broilers                                        1,508,264                    166,415            15,323,862

Hatching eggs                                                  682,623       820,087

Prawns                                                         264,320       226,244

Layers                                          3,460,590                    (556,095)

				

				 14,257,248                                                              1,066,614

				

(a) In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management estimates and judgements are required,
        which include the followings:-

		   (i) estimated selling price of table eggs, day-old chicks, broilers and spent hen;

		   (ii) estimated number of day-old chick produced by each layer breeder and broiler breeder and table
             egg to be produced by layers;

		   (iii) estimated hatchability rate of the hatching rate and mortality rate of live birds;

		   (iv) estimated feed consumption rate and feed costs and other estimated costs to be incurred for the
             remaining life of the live birds and at the point of sales;

		   (v) pre-tax discount rates ranging from 14.47% (2019: 13.16% - 15.07%)

(b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
        hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
        within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model.

     Type         Description of valuation      Significant             Inter-relationship between
                   technique and inputs          unobservable             significant unobservable
                   used                          inputs                   inputs and fair value
                                                                          measurement

     Breeders     Discounted cash flows:
                    The valuation method
                    considers the estimated     • Estimated selling     The estimated fair value would
                    quantity of day-old chick     price of the          increase/(decrease) if:-
                    to be produced over           agriculture produce.
                    the life of the breeders,                           • the estimated selling price of
                    taking into account the     • Estimated feed          the agriculture produce were
                    mortality rate of breeders    costs and overheads     higher/(lower).
                    and the estimated             expected to incur
                    feed costs and other          throughout the life   • the estimated feed costs and
                    overheads.                    cycle.                  overheads were (higher) /
                                                                          lower.

     Layers       Discounted cash flows:
                    The valuation method
                    considers the expected      • Estimated selling     The estimated fair value would
                    quantity and price            price of the          increase/(decrease) if:-
                    of table eggs to be           agriculture produce.
                    produced over the life                              • the estimated selling price of
                    of the layers, taking into  • Estimated feed          the agriculture produce were
                    account layers’ mortality     costs and overheads     higher/(lower).
                    rate.                         expected to incur
                                                  throughout the life   • the estimated feed costs and
                                                  cycle.                  overheads were (higher) /
                                                                          lower.
90 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)
			

        (b) The Group has classified its biological assets measured at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value
                 hierarchy. The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values
                 within Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation model. (Cont’d)

Type      Description of valuation       Significant                 Inter-relationship between
Broilers   technique and inputs           unobservable                 significant unobservable
           used                           inputs                       inputs and fair value
                                                                       measurement

          Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            The valuation method           price of the broilers at  increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the present          the point of sale.
            value of net cash flows                                  • the estimated selling price of
            from sales of broilers       • Estimated feed              the broilers at the point of sale
            less estimated feed costs      costs and overheads         were higher/(lower).
            and overheads incurred         expected to incur
            to the point of sale and       throughout the life       • the estimated feed costs and
            taking into account the        cycle.                      overheads were (higher) /
            mortality rate of broilers.                                lower.

Hatching  Discounted cash flows:         • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
 eggs       The valuation method           price of the day-old      increase/(decrease) if:-
            considers the present          chick at the point of
            value of net cash flows        sale.                     • the estimated selling price of
            from sales of day-old                                      the day-old chick at the point
            chick less estimated         • Estimated hatching          of sale were higher/(lower).
            hatching cost and              costs and overheads
            overheads incurred to          expected to incur         • the estimated hatching costs
            the point of sale and          throughout the              and overheads were (higher) /
            taking into account            hatching process.           lower.
            the hatchability rate of
            hatching eggs.

Prawns    Discounted cash flows:
            The valuation method
            considers the expected       • Estimated selling         The estimated fair value would
            quantity and price of          price of the prawns at    increase/(decrease) if:-
            prawns to be produced          the point of sale.
            over the life of the                                     • the estimated selling price of
            kilogram, taking into        • Estimated feed costs        the prawns at the point of sale
            account prawns’ mortality      and other variable          were higher/(lower).
            rate.                          costs expected to
                                           incur throughout the      • the estimated feed costs and
                                           laying period.              variable costs were (higher) /
                                                                       lower.
                                                                                             91 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(c) The key assumptions used for the fair value calculations are as follows:-

		                                                                                  The Group
					
					                                                                           2020           2019

                                                                                RM             RM

		Breeders			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (parent stock)(per bird)		 9.41 - 11.23         9.03 - 12.35
                                                                                                       1.20
		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (broiler)(per bird)		                  1.10
                                                                                              6.17 - 8.69
		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		                       7.84 - 8.31
                                                                                              5.05 - 5.53
					
                                                                                                       1.68
			

		Broilers			

		  Estimated selling price of broilers at the point of sale (per KG)		         5.17 - 5.77

					

			

		Hatching eggs			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick at the point of sale (per bird)		      1.68

					

		Prawns			

		  Estimated selling price of prawns at the point of sale (per KG)		           19.74          18.34
                                                                                                6.22
		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per KG)		                             4.33
                                                                                                0.27
					                                                                                           9.53

			

		Layers			

		  Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			                                   0.27

		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)		                           9.48

					

(d) Reasonable possible changes at the reporting date to one of the key assumptions, holding other
        assumptions constant, would have affected the fair value of biological assets by the amounts shown
        below.

		The Group			

		                                                                              Increase/(decrease) in fair

		                                                                              value of biological assets

					                                                                           2020           2019

					                                                                           RM             RM

			

		Breeders			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (broiler)(per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                                              862,675        358,490

		  - decrease by 10%           		                                              (862,675)      (358,490)

			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick (parent)(per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                                              19,000         14,000

		  - decrease by 10%           		                                              (19,000)       (14,000)

			

		  Estimated feed costs and other overheads (per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                                              (122,000)      (110,000)

		  - decrease by 10%           		                                              122,000        110,000

					

			

		Broilers			

		  Estimated selling price of broilers at the point of sale (per KG)			

		  - increase by 10%           		                                              188,850        167,442

		  - decrease by 10%           		                                              (188,850)      (167,442)

					
92 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

12. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONT’D)

(d) Reasonable possible changes at the reporting date to one of the key assumptions, holding other
        assumptions constant, would have affected the fair value of biological assets by the amounts shown
        below. (Cont’d)

		The Group			

		                                                               Increase/(decrease) in fair

		                                                               value of biological assets

					                                                                              2020           2019

					                                                                              RM             RM

			

		Hatching eggs			

		  Estimated selling price of day-old chick at the point of sale (per bird)			

		  - increase by 10%                		                                            103,168        150,322

		  - decrease by 10%                		                                            (103,168)      (150,322)

					

			

		Prawns			

		  Estimated selling price of prawns at the point of sale (per KG)			

		  - increase by 10%                		                                            57,884         49,056

		  - decrease by 10%                		                                            (57,884)       (49,056)

					

			

		Layers			

		  Estimated selling price of egg (per piece)			

		  - increase by 10%                		                                            337,755        290,449

		  - decrease by 10%                		                                            (337,755)      (290,449)

					

			

		  In respect of other variables, a reasonable possible change in the assumptions used will not result in any

    material change to the fair value of the biological assets.

13. TRADE RECEIVABLES

		                                                                                     The Group
					
					                                                                              2020           2019

                                                                                   RM             RM

Trade receivables:-

- related parties			 31,414,971                                                               38,640,480
                                                                                               3,281,589
- third parties			                                               3,328,611
                                                                                              41,922,069
					                                                                                         (2,243,565)

    			 34,743,582                                                                            39,678,504

Less: Allowance for impairment losses			                         (2,110,535)                   2,245,325
                                                                                                     2,593
					
                                                                                                  344,420
					 32,633,047                                                                                (348,773)

					                                                                                                       -

Allowance for impairment losses:-                                                              2,243,565

At 1 January 			                                                 2,238,667

Exchange differences			                                                            2,593

Addition during the financial year			                                              213,790

Reversal during the financial year			                                              (67,509)

Write-off during the financial year			                                             (277,006)

					

At 31 December			                                                2,110,535

					

The Group’s normal trade credit terms range from 30 to 90 (2019 – 30 to 90) days.
                                                                             93 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

14. OTHER RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS

                                       The Group               The Company

			                                    2020        2019        2020          2019

			RM                                              RM          RM            RM

Other receivables:-

- third parties                        74,459      75,918      163,561       74,061

- related parties                      1,799,263   1,083,094   9,011         9,061

- goods and services tax recoverable   460,448     1,287,971   26,618        27,974

		

                                       2,334,170   2,446,983   199,190       111,096

Deposits                               3,074,958   2,714,137              -        -

Prepayments                            4,926,416   6,102,060   105,156       105,548

Less: Allowance for impairment losses        -     (46,576)               -        -

		

		                                     10,335,544  11,216,604  304,346       216,644

		

				

Allowance for impairment losses:-					

At 1 January                           46,576      46,576                 -        -

Write-off during the financial year    (46,576)          -                -        -

		

At 31 December                               -     46,576                 -        -

		

The amount owing by related parties is unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amount owing
is to be settled in cash.

15. AMOUNT OWING BY/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES

        Included in the amount owing by subsidiaries is a sum of RM22,600,000 (2019 – RM24,549,000), which is
        unsecured advances granted to subsidiaries. The advances carry interest at rate ranging from 4.48% to 5.70%
        (2019 – 5.54% to 5.70%) per annum and are repayable on demand.

        All other amounts are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. The amounts
        owing are to be settled in cash.
 

16. DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS

        The deposits which represent overnight placements with licensed banks of the Group at the end of the reporting
        period bore effective interest at rates ranging from 0.15% to 2.75% (2019 – 0.13% to 2.75%) per annum.

17. SHARE CAPITAL

				                                               The Group/The Company

				                                   2020        2019        2020          2019

				                                   Number of Shares        RM            RM

						

Issued and Fully Paid-Up					

		

Ordinary Shares					

		

At 31 December/ At 1 January           630,718,800 630,718,800 158,968,786 158,968,786

		

The holders of ordinary shares (except treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared
by the Company, and are entitled to one vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. The ordinary
shares have no par value.
94 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

18. TREASURY SHARES

During the financial year, the Company has purchased 322,900 (2019 – 1,434,600) of its issued ordinary
shares from the open market at an average price of RM0.35 (2019 – RM0.49) per share. The total consideration
paid for the purchase was RM112,205 (2019 – RM705,752) including transaction costs. The ordinary shares
purchased are held as treasury shares in accordance with Section 127(6) of the Companies Act 2016.

Of the total 630,718,800 (2019 – 630,718,800) issued and fully paid-up ordinary shares at the end of the
reporting period, 4,074,100 (2019 – 3,751,200) ordinary shares are held as treasury shares by the Company.

 
19. RESERVES

                                                The Group                  The Company

			                                             2020        2019           2020             2019

			RM                                                       RM             RM               RM

        Non-distributable:-                       (4,665,958) (3,465,131)                -                -
        - foreign exchange translation reserve  149,061,197 122,589,904    32,999,254       33,022,351
        Distributable:-                         144,395,239 119,124,773    32,999,254       33,022,351
        - retained profits
		

		

Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve

The foreign exchange translation reserve arose from the translation of the financial statements of foreign
subsidiaries whose functional currencies are different from the Group’s presentation currency.

20. OTHER PAYABLES, DEPOSITS AND ACCRUALS

                                                The Group                  The Company

			                                             2020        2019           2020             2019

			RM                                                       RM             RM               RM

Non-current					

		

Other payables:-				

- third parties                                 3,433,991   6,265,023      3,433,991        6,265,023

		

				

Current					

		

Other payables:-

- third parties                                 6,651,111   5,801,875      3,181,554        3,264,569

- goods and services tax payables               53,353      49,937               -                -

Deposits                                        1,443,049   1,710,647            -                -

Accruals                                        13,835,670  12,023,849     603,965          506,465

		

		                                              21,983,183  19,586,308     3,785,519        3,771,034

		

		                                              25,417,174  25,851,331     7,219,510 10,036,057

		

Included in other payables is an amount of RM6,615,376 (2019 – RM9,529,023), which represents purchase
consideration of an investment in an associate. The amount is repayable within 5 (2019 – 6) years and is
subject to a late payment penalty fee of 6% (2019 – 6%) per annum.
                                                                                            95 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

21. BANK BORROWINGS

                                                   The Group                     The Company

			                                 2020                          2019           2020       2019

			RM                                                             RM             RM         RM

Long-term borrowings:-

- term loans, secured               7,547,626                     6,310,420            -          -

						

Short-term borrowings:-

- bank overdrafts, secured                              -         814,819              -          -

- bankers’ acceptance, secured      22,995,306             25,279,050                  -          -

- revolving credit, unsecured       12,000,000             18,000,000           12,000,000  18,000,000

- term loans, secured               1,024,754                     683,770              -          -

						

                                    36,020,060             44,777,639           12,000,000  18,000,000

		

Total borrowings                    43,567,686             51,088,059           12,000,000  18,000,000

		

The bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

(a) a fixed charge over certain subsidiaries’ landed properties;

(b) a corporate guarantee provided by the Company; and

(c) a joint and several guarantee provided by certain directors of the Company.

The repayment terms of the term loans are as follows:-

        Term loan 1 at COF + 1.50%  Repayable in 83 monthly instalments of RM5,250 each with a final
		 per annum                        instalment of RM194,250, effective from July 2014.

        Term loan 2 at BLR - 0.70%  Repayable in 180 monthly instalments of RM16,218 each, effective from
		 per annum                        March 2017.

        Term loan 3 at CFR + 1.75%  Repayable in 120 monthly instalments of RM10,519 each, effective from
		 per annum                        July 2018.

        Term loan 4 at CFR + 1.75%  Repayable in 120 monthly instalment of RM10,519 each effective from
		 per annum                        August 2018.

Term loan 5 at CFR + 1%             Repayment in 120 monthly instalments of RM55,802 each, effective on

		 per annum		the first day of the month following the full release of the term loan or the

			                                 expiry of the initial Availability Period.

The bankers’ acceptance of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate ranging
from 2.40% to 4.12% (2019 – 3.99% to 4.70%) per annum respectively.

The bank overdrafts of the Group at the end of the previous reporting period bore floating interest rates at
8.17% per annum.

The revolving credit of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest
at rate of 4.48% (2019 – 5.54%) per annum respectively.

The term loans of the Group at the end of the reporting period bore effective interest at rate ranging from 3.30%
to 4.36% (2019 – 4.50% to 6%) per annum.
96 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

22. LEASE LIABILITIES

		                                                    The Group
					
					                                             2020                                          2019

                                                  RM                                            RM

At 1 January			 12,803,701                                                                                    -
                                                                                                14,475,469
Additions			 10,544,638
                                                                                                              -
Derecognition			                                  (533,786)                                                   -
                                                                                                 1,240,249
Exchange differences			                           (4,800)                                       (1,671,768)
                                                                                                (1,240,249)
Interest expense recognised in profit or loss			  409,623
                                                                                                12,803,701
Repayment principal			 (3,532,240)

Repayment of interest expense			                  (409,623)

			

At 31 December			 19,277,513

				

Analysed by:-					

Current liabilities			                            3,133,106                                     1,826,082

Non-current liabilities			 16,144,407 10,977,619

				

				 19,277,513 12,803,701

				

23. DEFERRED INCOME

		                                                    The Group
					
					                                             2020                                          2019

                                                  RM                                            RM

        Government grant			                        65,850                                        65,850
        Less: Accumulated amortisation			         (47,035)                                      (47,035)
				
				                                               18,815                                        18,815
				

24. TRADE PAYABLES

		                                                    The Group
					
					                                             2020                                          2019

                                                  RM                                            RM

Trade payables:-				

- third parties			 14,027,366 15,570,800

- related parties			                              8,807,946                                     8,127,159

				

			 22,835,312 23,697,959

				

The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 60 to 90 (2019 – 60 to 90) days.
                                                                                     97 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

25. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

(a) The provision for employee benefits consist of the followings:-

		                                                                            The Group
					
					                                                                     2020           2019

                                                                          RM             RM

		  Defined benefit plans			                                              880,817        775,964

				

		  The Group provides benefits for its employees who has reached the retirement age of 55 based in the
    provision of Labour Law 13/2003 in Indonesia. The defined benefit plan is unfunded.

		  These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk,
    interest rate risk and investment risk.

		  The most recent actuarial valuation of the present value of the defined benefit plans were carried out by
    PT Jasa Aktuaria Praptasentosa Gunajasa, a member of Institute of Actuaries Indonesia. 

		  The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for defined
    benefit plans and its components:-

		                                                                            The Group
					
					                                                                     2020           2019

                                                                          RM             RM

		  At 1 January			                                                       775,964        675,718

		Recognised in Profit or Loss				

		  - current service cost			                                             186,062        101,714

		  - past service cost			                                                3,672                           -

		  - interest cost			                                                    48,422         45,826

							

    			                                                                   238,156        147,540

		Recognised in Other Comprehensive Income					

    Remeasurement of defined benefit plans:-

		  - effect of changes in financial assumptions			                       29,869         (37,357)

							

    			                                                                   29,869         (37,357)

		Other

		  Exchange differences			                                               (22,798)       22,335

		  Utilisation during the financial year			                              (140,374)      (32,272)

					

		  At 31 December			                                                     880,817        775,964

				

(b) Principal actuarial assumptions at the end of the reporting period:-

		                                                                            The Group
					
					                                                                     2020           2019

                                                                          RM             RM

		  Discount rate			                                                           7%             8%
                                                                              10%            10%
		  Salary growth rate			
                                                                                55             55
		  Normal retirement age			

				

		  Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables.
 
98 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

25. PROVISION FOR EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONT’D)

(c) Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding
        other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit plans by the amounts shown below:-

		                                                                                The Group

					                                                                         2020             2019

					                                                                         RM                       RM

		

		Discount rate

		  Increase of 1%			                                                         (1,337)                  (61,367)

		  Decrease of 1%			                                                         175,575                  72,095

						

		Salary growth rate

		  Increase of 1%			                                                         168,416                  67,295

		  Decrease of 1%			                                                         2,802                    (58,688)

				

		  Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan,
    it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.

		  At 31 December 2020, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit plans was 19.29 (2019 –
    20.08) years.

26. REVENUE

                                              The Group                       The Company

			                                       2020              2019              2020             2019

			RM                                                       RM                RM                       RM

        Cages rental income                      13,362                    -                -               -
        Dividend income                                  -                 -  12,264,000       11,000,000
        Management fee                                   -                 -
        Trading sales                                       650,930,034           366,000         366,000
        Transportation income             655,742,223            384,138                    -               -
			                                            287,493                                      -               -
			                                                         651,314,172
		                                        656,043,078                         12,630,000       11,366,000

The information on the disaggregation of revenue is disclosed in Note 36 to the financial statements.

27. NET IMPAIRMENT LOSSES/(GAINS) ON FINANCIAL ASSETS

                                              The Group                       The Company

			                                       2020              2019              2020             2019

			RM                                                       RM                RM                       RM

Impairment losses for the financial year  213,790           344,420                 -                      -

Reversal of impairment losses for the 					

    financial year                        (67,509)          (348,773)               -                      -

				

				                                      146,281           (4,353)                 -                      -

				
                                                                                 99 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

28. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION

                                            The Group               The Company

			                                         2020        2019        2020         2019

			RM                                                   RM          RM           RM

Profit before taxation is arrived

		 at after charging/(crediting):-					

		

Auditor’s remuneration:-				

- current financial year                    448,852     430,686     86,000       80,000

- underprovision in the previous

			 financial year                          2,840       21,585            -      5,000

Allowance for impairment losses 					

on receivables                              213,790     344,420           -            -

Allowance for impairment losses on 					

receivables no longer required              (67,509)    (348,773)         -            -

Bad debts recovered                               -     (1,569)           -            -

Bad debts written off                       68,929      126,290           -            118

Depreciation of investment properties       126,700     126,701           -            -

Depreciation of property, plant					

and equipment                               22,153,616  22,152,168  160,370      161,210

Directors’ remuneration (Note 34)           4,152,609   3,605,583   382,400      291,800

Dividend income:-

- subsidiaries                                    -           -     (9,000,000) (11,000,000)

- associates                                      -           -     (3,264,000)        -

Fair value gain on biological assets        (983,807) (1,066,614)         -            -

(Gain)/loss on disposal of property

		 plant and equipment                      (8,121)     27,853            -            -

Interest expense on financial 					

liabilities not at fair value through					

profit or loss:-				

		 - bank overdrafts                              13    21,728            -            -

		 - bankers’ acceptance                    880,490     1,206,745         -            -

		 - lease liabilities                      409,623     1,240,249         -            -

		 - revolving credit                       760,773     1,222,386   760,773      1,222,386

		 - term loans                             103,378     266,102           -            -

Interest income

- subsidiaries                                    -           -     (1,018,541) (1,279,985)

- others                                    (373,772)   (419,037)   (1,705)      (8,767)

Gain on derecognition of lease contract     (6,727)           -           -            -

(Gain)/loss on foreign exchange:-

- realised                                  (134,095)   (165,065)         -            -

- unrealised                                7,056       18,399            -            -

Hiring of plant and equipment               3,600       5,555             -            -

Lease expenses:-

- short-term leases                         15,400      14,400            -            -

- low value assets                                799   10,741            -            -

Lease income:-

- rental income from investment properties  (472,100)   (675,113)         -            -

- sublease of right-of-use assets           (52,480)    (59,040)          -            -

Management fee                                    -           -     (366,000)    (366,000)

Property, plant and equipment written off   23,322      45,448            -            -

Rental income on:-

- investment properties                           -     (275,860)         -            -

- property, plant and equipment             (129,799)   (22,501)          -            -

- warehouse                                       -     (10,000)          -            -

				
100 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

28. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION (CONT’D)			

                                      The Group                The Company

			                                   2020        2019         2020     2019

			RM                                             RM           RM       RM

Profit before taxation is arrived

		 at after charging/(crediting):- (cont’d)					

		

Rental expense on:-

- office                              13,800      11,400             -        -

- retail store                        1,935,993   2,139,106          -        -

- rental factory                      14,550      14,405             -        -

- rental warehouse                    107,709     238,478            -        -

- rental of apartment                 1,775             -            -        -

- rental of coldroom                  7,486             -            -        -

- rental of farm                      38,500            -            -        -

- rental of mess                      1,734       25,663             -        -

- rental of ponds                     239,394     360,848            -        -

- rental of worker room               67,320      30,000             -        -

- rental of equipment                 178,100     206,557            -        -

Share of profits in an equity

		 accounted associate                (6,465,440) (5,252,320)        -        -

Staff cost:-

- short-term employee benefits        50,409,445  48,206,258   400,392  367,534

- defined contribution plan           4,170,205   4,018,765    50,135       44,613

				

29. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

                                      The Group                The Company

			                                   2020        2019         2020     2019

			RM                                             RM           RM       RM

Income tax:-

- Malaysian tax                       7,917,398   8,186,594          -        -

- Foreign tax                         2,976,295   2,341,127          -        -

				

			                                   10,893,693  10,527,721         -        -

Overprovision in previous

		 financial year:-				

- Malaysian tax                       (375,563)   (285,205)          -        -

				

Deferred tax (Note 10):-

- origination and reversal of					

		 temporary differences              307,948     (176,295)    59,018   (51,103)

- (Over)/underprovision in

			 previous financial year           (398,698)   (379,710)    8,994    233,594

							

				                                  (90,750)    (556,005)    68,012   182,491

				

				                                  10,427,380  9,686,511    68,012   182,491

				
                                                                                         101 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

29. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)

A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to the profit before taxation at the statutory tax rate to income
tax expense at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-

                                      The Group                             The Company

			                                   2020        2019                      2020           2019

			RM                                             RM                        RM             RM

Profit before taxation                47,909,650  42,891,518                11,011,197   10,350,611

				                                                                                      2,484,147

							                                                                                               -
                                                                                         (2,801,410)
Tax at statutory tax rate of 24%      11,498,313  10,293,964                2,642,687
                                                                                            266,160
							                                                                                               -

Tax effects of:-                                                                                      -

Deferred tax recognised at different                                                                  -
                                                                                            233,594
		 tax rates                          (262,116)   95,730                          -
                                                                                                      -
Non-taxable income                    (2,091,265) (1,585,102) (3,073,805)
                                                                                            182,491
Non-deductible expenses               2,057,507   1,798,312                 490,136

Deferred tax assets not recognised

		 during the financial year          81,566            -                         -

Utilisation of deferred tax assets

		 previously not recognised in

		 previous financial year                  -     (238,319)                       -

(Over)/underprovision in the

		 previous financial year:-

- current tax                         (375,563)   (285,205)                       -

- deferred tax                        (398,698)   (379,710)                 8,994

Others                                (82,364)    (13,159)                        -

				

Income tax expense for the

		 financial year                     10,427,380  9,686,511                 68,012

				

30. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                                                  The Group

		                                                                          2020           2019
					
					                                                                       RM             RM

        Items that Will Not be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss  (30,169)       28,018
        Remeasurement of defined benefit plans			
						                                                                      (1,200,827)  1,016,524
                                                                            (1,230,996)  1,044,542
        Items that Will be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss
        Foreign exchange translation:-
        - changes during the financial year			
						
						
						
102 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

31. EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                         The Group

		                                                                         2020              2019
					
					                                                                      RM                RM

        Profit attributable to the owners of the Company (RM)			           37,482,270        33,170,065
						

Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:-

Ordinary shares at 1 January 			 630,718,800 630,718,800

Effect of treasury shares held			 (4,005,086) (2,891,118)

						

Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 626,713,714 627,827,682

						

Basic earnings per share (sen)					

    					                                                                      5.98              5.28

						

							

The Company has not issued any dilutive potential ordinary shares and hence, the diluted earnings per share

is equal to the basic earnings per share.

32. DIVIDENDS                                                              The Company

		                                                                         2020              2019
					
					                                                                      RM                RM

Ordinary Shares					

		

Final dividend of 0.50 sen (2019 - 1.25 sen) per ordinary share in

		 respect of the previous financial year			                               3,133,223         7,853,777

							

First interim dividend of 1.25 sen per ordinary share in respect of

		 the previous financial year			                                          7,833,059               -

						

						 10,966,282                                                                            7,853,777

						

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

(a) The cash disbursed for the purchase of property, plant and equipment is as follows:-

                                           The Group                       The Company

			                                        2020                      2019  2020              2019

			RM                                                                RM    RM                RM

		    Cost of property, plant and

			 equipment purchased                    25,213,328        24,030,785                   -        750

				

(b) The cash and cash equivalents comprise the followings:-

                                           The Group                       The Company

			                                        2020                      2019  2020              2019

			RM                                                                RM    RM                RM

		    Cash and bank balances               49,860,764        39,100,668    4,772,579         428,783
                                            9,266,229         4,925,406                -              -
		    Deposits with licensed banks                       -      (814,819)              -              -

		    Bank overdrafts                      59,126,993        43,211,255    4,772,579         428,783

				

			

				
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows: -

						                                                                                      Bankers'  Lease            Revolving     Term

						                                                                                      Acceptance Liabilities     Credit        Loans     Total

    The Group				 RM                                                                                  RM               RM            RM        RM

						

		2020						

						

		  At 1 January 2020		 25,279,050 12,803,701 18,000,000 6,994,190 63,076,941

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows						

		  Proceeds from drawdown		                                                                -                       -             - 1,945,000 1,945,000

		  Repayment of principal		 (2,283,744) (3,532,240) (6,000,000) (366,810) (12,182,794)

						

					 (2,283,744) (3,532,240) (6,000,000) 1,578,190 (10,237,794)

		Non-cash Changes						

		  Acquisition of new leases (Note 22)		                                                   - 10,544,638                          -         -         -

		  Derecognition of lease contract (Note 22)		                                             -         (533,786)                   -         -         -

		  Exchange differences (Note 22)		                                                        -         (4,800)                     -         -         -

						

					                                                                                       - 10,006,052                          -         -         -

					

		  At 31 December 2020		 22,995,306 19,277,513 12,000,000 8,572,380 52,839,147

					

                                                                                                                                                         ANNUAL 103 REPORT
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                                                                  104 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

					                                          Bankers’                                              Hire  Lease  Revolving     Term

					                                          Acceptance Purchase Liabilities                                    Credit        Loans  Total

		The Group			 RM                                                                                    RM    RM     RM            RM     RM

						

		2019						

						

		  At 1 January 2019, as previously reported  25,493,000   238,774                                               - 24,000,000 4,162,408 53,894,182

		  Effects on adoption of MFRS 16                       -  (238,774) 14,475,469                                             -         - 14,236,695

				

		  At 1 January, as restated                  25,493,000                                                  - 14,475,469 24,000,000 4,162,408 68,130,877

						

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows

		  Proceeds from drawdown                               -                                                 - 		              - 3,152,500 3,152,500

		  Repayment of principal                     (213,950)                                                   - (1,671,768) (6,000,000) (320,718) (8,206,436)

						

				                                           (213,950)                                                   - (1,671,768) (6,000,000) 2,831,782 (5,053,936)

				

		  At 31 December 2019                        25,279,050                                                  - 12,803,701 18,000,000 6,994,190 63,076,941

				
                                                                                                     105 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

33. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)

(c) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (cont’d): -

						                                               Amount 		

						                                               Owing To           Revolving

						                                               Subsidiaries       Credit                       Total

			 The Company			 RM                                                   RM                           RM

				

		2020				

				

		  At 1 January 2020		                              3,538,685          18,000,000                   21,538,685

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows

		  Advance from subsidiaries		                      (2,117,545)                   -                 (2,117,545)

		  Repayment of borrowing principal		                               -  (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

				

				                                                 (2,117,545)        (6,000,000) (8,117,545)

				

		  At 31 December 2020		                            1,421,140          12,000,000                   13,421,140

				

				

						                                               Amount 		

						                                               Owing To           Revolving

						                                               Subsidiaries       Credit                       Total

			 The Company			 RM                                                   RM                           RM

				

		2019				

				

		  At 1 January 2019		                              1,653,103          24,000,000                   25,653,103

				

		Changes in Financing Cash Flows				

		  Repayment to subsidiaries		                      1,885,582                     -                 1,885,582

		  Repayment of borrowing principal		                               -  (6,000,000) (6,000,000)

				

				                                                 1,885,582          (6,000,000) (4,114,418)

				

    At 31 December 2019		                            3,538,685          18,000,000                   21,538,685

				

				

(d) The total cash outflows for leases as a leasee are as follows:-

                                        The Group                       The Company

			                                     2020         2019               2020                         2019

			RM                                                RM                 RM                           RM

		  Interest paid on lease liabilities    409,623    1,240,249                     -                        -
                                        3,532,240    1,671,768
		  Payment of lease liabilities                                                   -                        -
                                            15,400       14,400
		  Payment of short-term leases                                                   -                        -
                                                799      10,741
		  Payment of leases of low-value
                                        3,958,062    2,937,158
			 assets                                                                         -                        -

				

			                                                                                -                        -
106 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

34. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION

The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include executive directors and non-
executive directors of the Company and certain members of senior management of the Group and of the
Company.

The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:-

(a) Directors

                                      The Group             The Company

			                                   2020       2019       2020                         2019

			RM                                            RM         RM                           RM

		Directors of the Company					

    		

		Executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                            82,480     58,280     73,000                       48,800

		  - salaries, bonuses and

				 other benefits                   2,789,962  2,404,601                            -        -

							

					                                 2,872,442  2,462,881  73,000                       48,800

		  Defined contribution plan         277,562    218,117                              -        -

					

    			                               3,150,004  2,680,998  73,000                       48,800

					

		Non-executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                            327,760    261,360    309,400                      243,000

					

					                                 3,477,764  2,942,358  382,400                      291,800

					

		Directors of the Subsidiaries					

    		

		Executive Directors					

    		

		  Short-term employee benefits:-

		  - fees                            1,200      1,200                                -        -

		  - salaries, bonuses and

				 other benefits                   617,370    601,230                              -        -

							

				                                  618,570    602,430                              -        -

		  Defined contribution plan         56,275     60,795                               -        -

					

					                                 674,845    663,225                              -        -

					

		  Total directors’ remuneration

			 (Note 28)                         4,152,609  3,605,583  382,400                      291,800

					

    		
                                                                          107 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

35. SIGNIFICANT RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

(a) Identities of Related Parties

		           Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly or
             indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making
             financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are
             subject to common control.

		           In addition to the information detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group has related
             party relationships with its directors, key management personnel and entities within the same group of
             companies.
        (b)
             Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances

		           Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also
             carried out the following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:-

                                           The Group           The Company

			                                  2020             2019     2020       2019

			RM                                                 RM       RM         RM

		Subsidiaries:-

		           - accounting fee              -                -  24,000       24,000

		           - advisory fee income         -                -  53,400       53,400

		           - dividend income             -                -  9,000,000 11,000,000

		           - donations                   -                -  6,029            -

		           - interest income             -                -  1,018,541  1,279,985

		           - management income           -                -  366,000    366,000

		           - service income              -                -  59,733       45,309

		           - sundry income               -                -  1,441            714

							

		Associate:-

		           - dividend income             -                -  3,264,000        -

		           - purchase of products  101,888,463 105,077,275         -          -

		           - freight charges       1,764,476     2,005,698         -          -

		           - sales                       13,566           -        -          -

							

		           Companies in which the

			 directors and their

			 close family members

			 have substantial

			 financial interests:-

		           - advisory fee                -                -  9,000        9,000

		           - purchase of products        60,374     107,310        -          -

		           - sale of products      633,460          987,314        -          -

		           - service income              -          4,469          -          -

			

             			

		           The significant outstanding balances of the related parties (including the allowance for impairment loss

             made) together with their terms and conditions are disclosed in the respective notes to the financial

             statements.
108 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

     FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

       36. OPERATING SEGMENTS

                Operating segments are prepared in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group
                Managing Director as its chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to segments and to
                assess their performance on a quarterly basis. For management purposes, the Group is organised into business
                units based on their products and services provided.

                The Group is organised into 5 main reportable segments as follows:-

                • Poultry Segment – involved in the rearing and production of poultry products.

                • Prawn Segment – involved in the rearing and production of prawn and seafood products.

                • Food Service Segment – involved in the supply and trading of food products and related services.

                • Retail Segment – involved in the trading of coldstorage products.

                • Corporate Segment – involved in the provision of management services.

                (a) The Group Managing Director assesses the performance of the reportable segments based on their
                        profit before taxation. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s
                        accounting policies.

                (b) Each reportable segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of the segment
                        other than investments in associates and tax-related assets.

                (c) Each reportable segment liabilities is measured based on all liabilities of the segment other than
                        borrowings and tax-related liabilities.

                (d) Assets, liabilities and expenses which are common and cannot be meaningfully allocated to the reportable
                        segments are presented under unallocated items. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets
                        and head office expenses.

       		Transactions between reportable segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects
                of such inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

					                                                      		                         Food 			

		    			                                                  Poultry        Prawn       Service     Retail           Corporate      Group

2020                                                   		  RM             RM          RM          RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue						

External revenue                                           96,900,356 18,347,752 13,522,013 527,272,957                       - 656,043,078

Inter-segment revenue                                      193,339,776 13,484,642     11,210 92,636,589 12,630,000 312,102,217

		

		                                                         290,240,132 31,832,394 13,533,223 619,909,546 12,630,000 968,145,295

		                                                                                                                            		

Consolidation adjustments						 (312,102,217)

							

Consolidated revenue						 656,043,078

							

							

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation                9,564,187      629,263 1,624,746 33,851,731 11,898,098 57,568,025

Finance costs						 (2,154,277)

Share of results in an associate						 6,465,440

Consolidation adjustments						 (13,969,538)

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 47,909,650

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                     338,292         7,357             -      638,232        760,773       1,744,654    ANNUAL 109 REPORT
        Interest income                                        (2,402)    (44,979)    (12,399)       (312,287)         (1,705)       (373,772)
        Interest expense on lease liabilities                   7,694      27,252                     374,677                  -      409,623
        Depreciation of investment properties                          -                       -      126,700                  -      126,700
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                              -           -  14,286,047           30,551
        Other material non-cash items                      7,044,137      640,727     152,154         261,227                  -  22,153,616
        Share of results in an associate                       (6,965)    (15,256)        (235)                                       238,771
		                                                                     -                       -                -  6,465,440
                                                                                   -                                               6,465,440
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                         110 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

					                                          		                    Food 			

		    			                                      Poultry    Prawn      Service  Retail  Corporate  Group

2020                             		            RM         RM         RM       RM      RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                                 95,064,448 22,837,531 6,348,876 254,790,206 14,035,900 393,076,961

Unallocated assets:-

- investment in an associate						 29,687,899

- goodwill						                                                                                 380,224

- deferred tax assets						 1,593,117

- current tax assets						 1,161,961

							

Consolidated total assets						 425,900,162

							

Additions to non-current assets other than financial 						

		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment                  3,687,931  347,173        550 29,681,124 2,089,477 35,806,255

			

			

Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                            24,672,854 2,160,447  735,077 47,505,574 24,333,470 99,407,422

Unallocated liabilities:-

- deferred tax liabilities						 9,766,525

- lease liabilities						 19,277,513

- current tax liabilities						 3,112,630

- consolidated adjustments						 (6,687,618)

							

Consolidated total liabilities						 124,876,472

							
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

					                                                      		                          Food 			

		    			                                                  Poultry        Prawn        Service     Retail           Corporate      Group

2019                                                   		  RM             RM           RM          RM               RM             RM

							

Revenue						

External revenue                                           101,369,140 21,907,107 16,465,357 511,572,568                       - 651,314,172

Inter-segment revenue                                      200,580,356 18,673,766      14,331 93,895,220 11,366,000 324,529,673

		

		                                                         301,949,496 40,580,873 16,479,688 605,467,788 11,366,000 975,843,845

		

Consolidation adjustments						 (324,529,673)

							

Consolidated revenue						 651,314,172

							

							

Results						

Segment profit before interest and taxation                10,432,872 2,055,686 1,346,189 29,196,265 11,696,794 54,727,806

Finance costs						 (3,957,210)

Share of results in an associate						 5,252,320

Consolidation adjustments						 (13,131,398)

							

Consolidated profit before taxation						 42,891,518

							

							

Segment profit before interest and taxation includes the followings:-						

        Interest expense                                     619,104        67,091              -   2,048,629       1,222,386       3,957,210    ANNUAL 111 REPORT
        Interest income                                        (1,989)    (106,622)    (16,344)       (285,315)         (8,767)       (419,037)
        Depreciation of investment properties                          -                               126,701                  -      126,701
        Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                               -           -  13,800,467           31,391     22,152,168
        Other material non-cash items                      7,485,181       677,734     157,395                              118        211,670
        Share of results in an associate                     225,470       (84,205)                     70,287                      5,252,320
		                                                                     -                        -                -  5,252,320
                                                                                    -           -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                        112 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

					                                          		                  Food 			

		    			                                      Poultry    Prawn    Service  Retail  Corporate  Group

2019                             		            RM         RM       RM       RM      RM         RM

							

Assets						

Segment assets                                 99,818,438 21,920,879 9,523,629 234,620,053 7,692,560 373,575,559

Unallocated assets:-						

- investment in an associate						 26,486,459

- goodwill						                                                                               380,224

- deferred tax assets						 1,388,522

- current tax assets						                                                                     770,942

							

Consolidated total assets						 402,601,706

							

Additions to non-current assets other than financial 						

		 instruments and deferred tax assets are:-						

Property, plant and equipment                  3,275,902  312,727  11,154 15,909,489 4,521,513 24,030,785

		

						

Liabilities						

Segment liabilities                            26,140,406 2,465,224 1,406,268 45,936,886 31,204,259 107,153,043

Unallocated liabilities:-						

- deferred tax liabilities						 9,661,156

- lease liabilities						 12,803,701

- current tax liabilities						 2,551,154

- consolidated adjustments						 (5,720,915)

							

Consolidated total liabilities						 126,448,139

							
                                                                                                 113 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

36. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)

    GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

    Revenue is based on the country in which the customers are located.

    Non-current assets are determined according to the country where these assets are located. The amounts of
    non-current assets do not include financial instruments and deferred tax assets.

		                               Revenue                                              Non-current Assets

				 2020                                   2019                                      2020           2019

		 Group		RM                                RM                                        RM             RM

							

    Australia                    537,242    1,797,912                                       -              -

    Indonesia                    116,089,567 105,883,910                    35,632,472           33,065,004

    Hong Kong                    260,600    665,353                                         -              -

    Japan                        6,851,922  7,379,921                                       -              -

    Korea                        -          524,067                                         -              -

    Middle East                  343,512                                 -                  -              -

    Malaysia                     531,212,386 534,305,425 213,608,429 201,289,379

    Taiwan                       747,849    455,754                                         -              -

    Vietname                     -          301,830                                         -              -

				

    			                          656,043,078 651,314,172 249,240,901 234,354,383

				

    MAJOR CUSTOMERS

    There is no single customer that contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue.

37. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

		                                                                                        The Group
					
					                                                                                 2020           2019
			
                                                                                      RM             RM
        Purchase of property, plant and equipment			
						                                                                                439,760    2,529,237
 

38. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

    No provisions are recognised on the following matters as it is not probable that a future sacrifice of economic
    benefits will be required or the amount is not capable of reliable measurement:-

		                                                                                        The Group

					                                                                                 2020           2019

					                                                                                 RM             RM

				

    Performance guarantee extended by a subsidiary to third parties		                 4,427,171  6,602,054

						

				

    The performance guarantee is supported by a corporate guarantee provided by the Company.
114 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of market risk (including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk
and equity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses
on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s
financial performance.

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES

		  The Group’s policies in respect of the major areas of treasury activity are as follows:-

		(a) Market Risk

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk

				  The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are
      denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of entities within
      the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”)
      and Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely on an ongoing
      basis to ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level.

				  The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk (a currency which is other than the functional
      currency of the entities within the Group) based on the carrying amounts of the financial
      instruments at the end of the reporting period is summarised below:-

				Foreign Currency Exposure

		                                    Indonesian     United         Ringgit

		                                    Rupiah         States Dollar  Malaysia                     Total

      The Group                       RM             RM             RM                           RM

				

				2020				

				

				Financial Assets				

				  Trade receivables               6,956,459      918,591        24,757,997                   32,633,047

				  Other receivables 				

					 and deposits                    540,741                -      4,407,939                    4,948,680

				  Deposits with licensed 				

					 banks                                       -          -      9,266,229                    9,266,229

				  Cash and bank balances 14,437,930              459,628        34,963,206                   49,860,764

							

							                               21,935,130     1,378,219      73,395,371                   96,708,720

							

				

				Financial Liabilities				

				  Trade payables                  6,930,863              -      15,904,449                   22,835,312

				  Other payables, 				

					 deposits and accruals 3,950,325                        -      21,413,496                   25,363,821

				  Bank borrowings:-				

				  - other borrowings                          -          -      43,567,686                   43,567,686

				  Lease liabilities                           -          -      19,277,513                   19,277,513

							

							                               10,881,188             - 100,163,144 111,044,332

      			

				  Net financial

					 assets/(liabilities)            11,053,942     1,378,219 (26,767,773) (14,335,612)

				  Less: Net financial 				

					 (assets)/liabilities 				

					 denominated in the

					 respective entities’

					 functional currencies (11,053,942)                     -      26,767,773                   15,713,831

							

				  Currency exposure                           -  1,378,219                                -  1,378,219

							
                                                                               115 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

				Foreign Currency Exposure (Cont’d)

				

		                                  Indonesian     United         Ringgit

		                                  Rupiah         States Dollar  Malaysia     Total

      The Group                     RM             RM             RM           RM

				

				2019				

				

				Financial Assets				

				  Trade receivables             6,664,522      1,358,777      31,655,205   39,678,504

				  Other receivables 				

					 and deposits                  315,158                -      3,511,415    3,826,573

				  Deposits with licensed 				

					 banks                                     -          -      4,925,406    4,925,406

				  Cash and bank balances 8,149,230             516,910        30,434,528   39,100,668

							

							                             15,128,910     1,875,687      70,526,554   87,531,151

							

				

				Financial Liabilities				

				  Trade payables                6,514,757              -      17,183,202   23,697,959

				  Other payables, 				

					 deposits and accruals 3,534,050                      -      22,267,344   25,801,394

				  Bank borrowings:-				

				  - bank overdrafts                         -          -      814,819      814,819

				  - other borrowings                        -          -      50,273,240   50,273,240

				  Lease liabilities                         -          -      12,803,701   12,803,701

							

							                             10,048,807             - 103,342,306 113,391,113

							

				  Net financial				

					 assets/(liabilities)          5,080,103      1,875,687 (32,815,752) (25,859,962)

				  Less: Net financial 				

					 (assets)/liabilities 				

					 denominated in the				

					 respective entities’ 				

					 functional currencies         (5,080,103)            -      32,815,752   27,735,649

							

				  Currency exposure                         -  1,875,687                -  1,875,687

							
116 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			  (i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)

				Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				

				  The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the

      foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

				 The Group

				 2020                                                               2019

				 RM                                                                 RM

			

				Effects on Profit after Taxation 			

				  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                       + 105,000  + 143,000
                                                             - 105,000  - 143,000
					                                 – weakened by 10% 			

				Effects on Equity			

				  IDR/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                       + 840,000  + 386,000
                                                             - 840,000  - 386,000
					                                 – weakened by 10% 			

				  USD/RM – strengthened by 10% 			                       + 105,000  + 143,000
                                                                        - 143,000
					                                 – weakened by 10% 			  - 105,000

							

			  (ii) Interest Rate Risk

				  Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
      will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest
      rate risk arises mainly from its long-term borrowings with variable rates. The Group’s policy
      is to obtain the most favourable interest rates available.

				  The Group’s deposits with licensed banks are carried at amortised cost. Therefore, they are
      not subject to interest rate risk as defined MFRS 7 since neither their carrying amount nor
      the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.

				  The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk based on the carrying amounts of the financial

      instruments at the end of the reporting period is disclosed in Note 21 to the financial

      statements.

 

				Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity Analysis

				  The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the
      interest rates at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

				 The Group

				 2020                                                               2019

				 RM                                                                 RM

			

				Effects on Profit after Taxation			

				  Increase of 25 basis points			                         - 3,000    - 5,500
				  Decrease of 25 basis points			                         + 3,000    + 5,500

				Effects on Equity			

				  Increase of 25 basis points			                         - 3,000    - 5,500
                                                             + 3,000    + 5,500
				  Decrease of 25 basis points			

							
                                                     117 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

   39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (a) Market Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii)  Equity Price Risk

			         The Group does not have any quoted investments and hence, is not exposed to equity price
            risk.
				

		(b) Credit Risk

			  The Group’s exposure to credit risk, or the risk of counterparties defaulting, arises mainly from its
     trade and other receivables. The Group manages its exposure to credit risk by the application of
     credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis. For other financial
     assets (including deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances), the Group minimises
     credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.

			  The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to subsidiaries,
     and corporate guarantee given to financial institutions for credit facilities granted to certain
     subsidiaries. The Company monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments
     made by the subsidiaries.

			  (i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile

				        The Group does not have any major concentration of credit risk related to any individual
            customer or counterparty.

			  (ii) Exposure to Credit Risk

				        At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the
            carrying amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statement of financial
            position of the Group and of the Company after deducting any allowance for impairment
            losses (where applicable).

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses

				        At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of financial assets at amortised
            cost are credit impaired.

				        The gross carrying amounts of those financial assets are written off when there is no
            reasonable expectation of recovery (ie. the debtor does not have assets or sources of
            income to generate sufficient cash flows to repay the debt) despite they are still subject to
            enforcement activities.

				Trade Balances

				        The Group applies the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses
            a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.

				        To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets have been
            grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.

				        The Group considers any receivables having financial difficulty or with significant balances
            outstanding for more than 150 days, are deemed credit impaired.

				        The expected loss rates are based on the historical credit losses experienced, adjusted
            to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the
            ability of the customers to settle their debts.

 
118 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Trade Balances (Cont’d)

					The information about the exposure to credit risk and the loss allowance calculated under
                                  MFRS 9 for trade receivables is summarised below: -

			                                                  Gross      Lifetime Loss  Carrying

			                                                  amount     Allowance      Amount

      The Group		 RM                                            RM             RM

				

				2020				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 22,295,222                                  - 22,295,222

				  1 to 30 days past due		                        4,764,889             -   4,764,889

				  31 to 60 days past due		                       1,458,885             -   1,458,885

				  61 to 90 days past due		                       857,759               -   857,759

				  More than 90 days past due		                   3,777,080  (873,381)      2,903,699

								

								 33,153,835                                             (873,381) 32,280,454

				  Credit impaired:-				

				  - individually impaired		                      1,589,747  (1,237,154)    352,593

								

								 34,743,582                                             (2,110,535) 32,633,047

								

				

			                                                  Gross      Lifetime Loss  Carrying

			                                                  amount     Allowance      Amount

      The Group		 RM                                            RM             RM

				

				2019				

				

				  Current (not past due)		 23,498,822                                  - 23,498,822

				  1 to 30 days past due		                        7,057,275             -   7,057,275

				  31 to 60 days past due		                       3,536,314      (500)      3,535,814

				  61 to 90 days past due		                       2,634,304             -   2,634,304

				  More than 90 days past due		                   3,708,669  (983,750)      2,724,919

								

								 40,435,384                                             (984,250) 39,451,134

				  Credit impaired:-				

				  - individually impaired		                      1,486,685  (1,259,315)    227,370

								

								 41,922,069                                             (2,243,565) 39,678,504

								

				Other Receivables

				  Other receivables are also subject to the impairment requirements of MFRS 9, the identified
      impairment loss was immaterial and hence is not provided for.

				Deposits with Licensed Banks, Cash and Bank Balances

				  The Group considers these banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Therefore,
      the Group is of the view that the loss allowance is immaterial and hence, it is not provided
      for.
                                                     119 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

			  (iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)

				Amount owing by Subsidiaries

				  The Company applies the general approach to measuring expected credit losses for all inter-
      company balances. Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries
      have low credit risks. The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit
      risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able
      to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ loans and advances when they
      are payable, the Company considers the loans and advances to be in default when the
      subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a subsidiary’s
      loan or advance to be credit impaired when the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its loan or
      advance in full or the subsidiary is continuously loss making or the subsidiary is having a
      deficit in its total equity.

				  The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually
      using internal information available.

				  The identified impairment loss was immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.

				Financial Guarantees Contract

				  All of the financial guarantee contracts are considered to be performing, have low risks of
      default and historically there were no instances where these financial guarantee contracts
      were called upon by the parties of which the financial guarantee contracts were issued to.
      Accordingly, no loss allowances were identified based on 12-month expected credit losses.

		(c) Liquidity Risk

			  Liquidity risk arises mainly from general funding and business activities. The Group practises
     prudent risk management by maintaining sufficient cash balances and the availability of funding
     through certain committed credit facilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                                                                           120 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis

			  The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows
     (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):-

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2020							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing             6.00          6,615,376   7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877             -

			  - non-interest bearing         -             41,583,757  41,583,737    41,583,737      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bankers’ acceptance          2.40 - 4.12 22,995,306    22,995,306    22,995,306      -            -                 -

			  - revolving credit             4.48          12,000,000  12,000,000    12,000,000      -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   3.30 - 4.36   8,572,380   9,096,473     5,770,211   447,072      1,906,110    973,080

			  Lease liabilities              4.41 - 9.36 19,277,513    23,647,360    3,958,690   3,381,557    9,152,693    7,154,420

					

     		                                           111,044,332 116,634,053   89,912,834  6,485,039    12,108,680   8,127,500

					
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

				                                Weighted						

				                                Average		                 Contractual On Demand 			

				                                Effective     Carrying    Undiscounted  or Within 			                         Over

				                                Interest Rate Amount      Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years  5 Years

			The Group                        %             RM          RM            RM          RM           RM           RM

							

			2019							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing             6.00          9,529,023   11,337,395    4,083,609   3,552,950    3,700,836             -

			  - non-interest bearing         -             39,970,330  39,970,330    39,970,330      -            -                 -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - bank overdrafts              8.17          814,819     814,819       814,819         -            -                 -

			  - bankers’ acceptance          3.99 - 4.70 25,279,050    25,279,050    25,279,050      -            -                 -

			  - revolving credit             5.54          18,000,000  18,000,000    18,000,000      -            -                 -

			  - term loans                   4.50 - 6.00   6,994,190   7,706,952     3,780,448   750,950      1,797,024    1,378,530

			  Lease liabilities              6.14          12,803,701  19,070,365    2,954,307   2,674,847    7,640,999    5,800,212

					

					                                             113,391,113 122,178,911   94,882,563  6,978,747    13,138,859   7,178,742

					

                                                                                                                              ANNUAL 121 REPORT
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)                                                                                    122 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

					                                             Weighted					

					                                             Average		               Contractual On Demand 		

					                                             Effective  Carrying     Undiscounted  or Within 		

					                                  Interest Rate         Amount       Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years

			The Company		                                  %          RM           RM            RM          RM           RM

							

			2020							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing		                         6.00       6,615,376    7,311,177     3,604,890   2,656,410    1,049,877

			  - non-interest bearing		                     -          604,134      604,134       604,134         -            -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries		               -          1,421,140    1,421,140     1,421,140       -            -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - revolving credit		                         4.48       12,000,000   12,000,000    12,000,000      -            -

			  Financial guarantee contract *		             -                    -  29,371,453    29,371,453      -            -

						

						                                                       20,640,650   50,707,904    47,001,617  2,656,410    1,049,877

     			
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

		  (c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)

			Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)

					                                             Weighted					

					                                             Average		               Contractual On Demand 		

					                                             Effective  Carrying     Undiscounted  or Within 		

					                                  Interest Rate         Amount       Cash Flows    1 Year      1 - 2 Years  2 - 5 Years

			The Company		                                  %          RM           RM            RM          RM           RM

							

			2019							

							

			  Trade and other payables							

			  - interest bearing		                         6.00       9,529,592    11,337,395    4,083,609   3,552,950    3,700,836

			  - non-interest bearing		                     -          506,465      506,465       506,465         -            -

			  Amount owing to subsidiaries		               -          3,538,685    3,538,685     3,538,685       -            -

			  Borrowings:-							

			  - revolving credit		                         5.54       18,000,000   18,000,000    18,000,000      -            -

			  Financial guarantee contract *		             -                    -  34,973,470    34,973,470      -            -

						

						                                                       31,574,742   68,356,015    61,102,229  3,552,950    3,700,836

     			

			  * The contractual undiscounted cash flows represent the outstanding credit facilities of the subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period. The
           financial guarantees have not been recognised in the financial statements since their fair value on initial recognition were not material.

                                                                                                                                                        ANNUAL 123 REPORT
124 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT

		  The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to maintain an optimal
    capital structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholder(s) value. To achieve this
    objective, the Group may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic
    conditions, such as adjusting the amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or
    issuing new shares.

		  The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and
    regulatory, if any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group
    includes within net debt, loans and borrowings from financial institutions less cash and cash equivalents.
    Capital includes equity attributable to the owners of the parent and non-controlling interests. The debt-
    to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period was as follows:-

		                                                                The Group
					
					                                                         2020           2019

                                                              RM             RM

		  Bank borrowings:-

		  - bank overdrafts			                                            -           814,819
                                                                            12,803,701
		  - lease liabilities			 19,277,513                                       50,273,240

		  - other borrowings			 43,567,686                                        63,891,760
                                                                             (4,925,406)
					                                                                      (39,100,668)

					 62,845,199                                                            19,865,686

		  Less: Deposits with licensed banks			                     (9,266,229)  276,153,567

		  Less: Cash and bank balances			 (49,860,764)                                     0.07

					

		  Net debt			                                               3,718,206

					

					

		  Total equity			 301,023,690

					

					

		  Debt-to-equity ratio			                                       0.01

					

		  There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

39.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

                                      The Group               The Company

			                                   2020        2019        2020           2019

			RM                                             RM          RM             RM

		Financial Assets					

    		

		Amortised Cost					

    Trade receivables                 32,633,047  39,678,504        -                             -

		  Other receivables and deposits    4,948,680   3,826,573   172,157                             83,122

		  Amount owing by subsidiaries            -           -     96,588,118 111,860,628

		  Deposits with licensed banks      9,266,229   4,925,406         -                             -

		  Cash and bank balances            49,860,764  39,100,668  4,772,579      428,783

			

                                      96,708,720  87,531,151 101,532,854 112,372,533

			
                                                                         125 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

39.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)

                                    The Group                The Company

			                                 2020        2019         2020           2019

			RM                                           RM           RM             RM

			

		Financial Liabilities					

    		

		Amortised Cost					

    Trade payables                  22,835,312  23,697,959         -              -

		  Other payables, deposits

			 and accruals                    25,363,821  25,801,394   7,219,510 10,036,057

		  Amount owing to subsidiaries          -              -   1,421,140   3,538,685

		  Bank borrowings:-

		  - bank overdrafts                     -     814,819            -              -

		  - other borrowings              43,567,686  50,273,240   12,000,000  18,000,000

		  Lease liabilities               19,277,513  12,803,701         -              -

			

                                    111,044,332 113,391,113  20,640,650  31,574,742

			

    			

39.4 GAINS OR LOSSES ARISING FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

		                                                               The Group
					
					                                                        2020           2019

                                                             RM             RM

		Financial Assets					

    		

		Amortised Cost					

    Net losses/(gains) recognised in profit or loss			       146,281        (4,353)

						

		Financial Liabilities					

    		

		Amortised Cost					

    Net losses recognised in profit or loss			               409,623     1,240,249

						

							

39.5 FAIR VALUE INFORMATION

		  As the end of the reporting period, there were no financial instruments carried at fair values in the
    statement of the financial position.

		  The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group maturing within the next 12
    months approximated their carrying amounts due to the relatively short-term maturity of the financial
    instruments or repayable on demand terms.

		  The fair values of the term loans approximate their carrying amounts as they are repriced to market
    interest rates on or near the reporting date.
126 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)

     FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020

       40. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

                On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a global pandemic.
                Following the declaration, the Government of Malaysia had on 18 March 2020 imposed the Movement Control
                Order (“MCO”) and subsequently entered into various phases of the MCO until 31 December 2020 to curb the
                spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia.

                The management has assessed the impact on the Group and is of the opinion that there were no material
                financial impacts arising from the pandemic. Nevertheless, the Group has taken and will continue to take
                necessary steps to safeguard and preserve its financial condition, emphasising on liquidity management to
                meet its continuing financial commitments and liquidity needs.

                Given the dynamic nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate
                of its impacts on the Group’s financial position, operating results and cash flows at the date on which these
                financial statements are authorised for issue.
                                   127 ANNUAL REPORT

ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

The following information is presented in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad:

AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

The amount of audit fees payable to the Company’s external auditors, Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT (“CM”) for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020 by the Company and the Group are RM86,000 and RM369,500 respectively.
The amount of non-audit fees incurred for services rendered to the Company and the Group for the financial year
ended 31 December 2020 by CM and a firm or corporation affiliated to CM amounted to RM90,200 and RM160,500
respectively.

UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS

There were no proceeds raised from corporate proposals during the financial year under review.

MATERIAL CONTRACT INVOLVING INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS AND MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS

There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving the interests of Directors and major shareholders,
either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2020 or entered into since the end of the
previous financial year.
128 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES

     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020

Location                   Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                           Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
Jl. Bhumimas I                                               Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
No. 9, Kawasan                                               Revaluation
Industrial Cikupamas
Cikupa Tangerang           Factory, Office and  Leasehold    16.02.2015    20        2.802    13,260,217
15710 Banten, Indonesia    Warehouse            Expiring on
                                                17.06.2028
Lot 4147, Block 19
Seduan Land District       Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    14        3.571    11,309,785
Upper Lanang Road          Coldroom and         Expiring on
96000 Sibu, Sarawak        Warehouse            10.01.2071

H.S.(D.) No. 19776         Industrial Factory   Freehold     20.01.2015    20        0.518    11,075 000
P.T. No. 22244
Mukim of Batu              Corporate Office,    Leasehold    31.12.2020    25        5.671    9,936,188
Daerah Gombak              Coldroom, Abattoir   Expiring on
State of Selangor          and Factory          24.09.2117

Lot 999, Section 66        Layer Farm           Leasehold    31.12.2020    8         17.295
Jalan Keluli               Layer Farm           Expiring on
Bintawa Industrial Estate  Layer Farm           17.04.2116   31.12.2020    8         30.999   8,581,134
93450 Kuching, Sarawak     Vegetable Farm
                           Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    8         10.459
Lot 511, Block 9                                Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                       17.04.2116   31.12.2020    3         12.531   7,020,000
Bau, Sarawak
                                                Leasehold    20.01.2015    9         12.320   6,467,354
Bau Occupation Ticket No.                       Expiring on
3574, Bau Land District,                        17.04.2116
Sarawak
                                                Leasehold
Lot 16, Block 9                                 Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                       16.05.2073
Bau, Sarawak
                                                Leasehold
Lot 2704, Block 24                              Expiring on
Muara Tuang Land District                       02.07.2929
Sarawak

Country Lease No.
025092602 Papar
District of Papar, Sabah
                                                                                                129 ANNUAL REPORT

LIST OF TOP 10 PROPERTIES (CONT’D)

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020

Location                     Description/         Tenure       Date of       Age of    Land     Net Book
                             Existing Use                      Acquisition/  Building  Area     Value
Lot 123,                                                       Last          (Year)    (Acres)  (RM)
Senggi-Poak Land District                                      Revaluation
Bau Sarawak                                                                                        6,161,250
                             Broiler Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    18        12.390
Lot 124,                     Broiler Farm         Expiring on                                      6,121,000
Senggi-Poak Land District    Broiler Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    18        33.169
Bau Sarawak                  Broiler Farm                                                          5,453,767
                                                  Leasehold    31.12.2020    18        2.720
Lot 202,                                          Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                         09.02.2116   31.12.2020    18        4.960
Bau Sarawak
                                                  Leasehold
Lot 203,                                          Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                         10.04.2077
Bau Sarawak
                                                  Leasehold
Lot 604, Block 9                                  Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                         17.04.2077
Bau, Sarawak
                             Breeder Farm         Leasehold    31.12.2020    30        15.250
Lot 650, Block 9             Vacant land          Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District    Breeder Farm         19.04.2116   31.12.2020    -         5.501
Bau, Sarawak                 Breeder Farm
                                                  Leasehold    31.12.2020    30        14.443
Lot 1097, Block 9                                 Expiring on
Senggi-Poak Land District                         11.05.2116   31.12.2020    30        8.520
Bau, Sarawak
                                                  Leasehold
Bau Occupation Ticket No.                         Expiring on
2596 of 1934,                                     18.04.2116
Bau Land District, Sarawak
                                                  Leasehold
Country Lease No.                                 Expiring on
025339753 & 025339762                             21.11.2116
Lok Kawi, District of Papar
Sabah                        Factory, Office and  Leasehold    20.01.2015    23        2.679
                             Warehouse            Expiring on
                                                  31.12.2042
130 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 1 APRIL 2021

SHARE CAPITAL		

		

Total number of issued shares : 630,718,800

Issued share capital                  : RM158,968,786

Class of shares                       : Ordinary shares

Voting rights                         : One vote per ordinary share

 No. of        Size of shareholdings                                 % of holders     No. of shares        % of issued
holders                                                                                                       capital#
               less than 100 shares                                          2.21                4,415            0.00
    109        100 - 1,000 shares                                          16.26             417,177              0.07
    801        1,001 - 10,000 shares                                       46.31         11,355,560               1.81
  2,281        10,001 - 100,000 shares                                     30.50         45,118,244               7.20
  1,502        100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares                                 259,890,588               41.47
    228        5% and above of issued shares                                 4.63      309,858,716               49.45
               -                                                             0.08      626,644,700
        4                                                                 100.00                               100.00
  4,925

Note:
# excluding 4,074,100 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2021.

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 1 April 2021)

No. Name                                                                      No. of shares held

 1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.                Direct Interest      %#      Indirect Interest      %#
 2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                        138,170,076                                           -
 3. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                  103,426,080        22.05                     -
 4. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                              33,591,272                                    22.05
 5. Lau Liong Kii                                            34,671,288       16.51   138,170,076(a)             -
 6. Puan Sri Datin Wong Bak Hee                              14,740,752(c)
 7. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                                       2,589,224       5.36                      -  38.55
 8. Tiong Chiong Soon                                         1,699,624                                     4.32
 9. Chong Shaw Fui                                            1,515,360       5.53    241,596,156(b)
                                                                           -                               38.55
                                                                              2.35    27,043,084(d)        38.55
                                                                                                           38.55
                                                                              0.41    241,596,156(b)
                                                                                                            5.36
                                                                              0.27    241,596,156(e)

                                                                              0.24    241,596,156(e)

                                                                                   -  33,591,272(f)

Notes:
# excluding 4,074,100 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2021.
(a) Deemed interested through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of their substantial shareholdings in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak

      Sdn. Bhd.
(c) 3,204,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 3,882,896 shares are held through CGS-CIMB

      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
(d) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholding in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.   
(e) Deemed interested by virtue of their directorships in S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
(f) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                                131 ANNUAL REPORT

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (CONT’D)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2021

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 1 April 2021)

No. Name                                                              No. of shares held

 1. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk        Direct Interest                %#     Indirect Interest    %#
 2. Chong Shaw Fui                         34,671,288                                           38.97
 3. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                                  -            5.53   244,185,380(a)
 4. Tiong Chiong Soon                       1,699,624                                            5.36
 5. Kueh Chung Peng                         1,515,360                     -  33,611,272(b)      39.03
 6. Lau Liong Kii                          11,420,664(e)                                        38.55
 7. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng     14,740,752(g)               0.27   244,567,888(c)
 8. Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak Banyang          521,428(i)                                        0.66
 9. Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen                 198,400                0.24   241,596,156(d)      7.02
10. Bong Wei Leong                                       -                                       0.53
                                                         -            1.82   4,107,400(f)
                                                                                                      -
                                                                      2.35   44,014,052(h)            -
                                                                                                      -
                                                                      0.08   3,312,388(j)

                                                                      0.03                -

                                                                          -               -

                                                                          -               -

The Directors by virtue of their interests in shares in the Company are also deemed to have interests in shares in all of
its related corporations to the extent the Company has an interest, pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016.

Notes:

# excluding 4,074,100 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares as at 1 April 2021.

(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise
      Sdn. Bhd., and the interest of his spouse in the Company.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and the interest of his child in
      the Company.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., and
      the interests of his spouse in the Company.

(d) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.

(e) 9,795,892 shares are held through CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 1,624,772 shares are held through RHB Nominees
      (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(f) Deemed interested by virtue of the interest of his children in the Company.

(g) 3,204,096 shares are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 3,882,896 shares are held through CGS-CIMB
      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(h) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd., and the interests of his spouse and
      children in the Company.

(i) 393,132 shares are held through AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(j) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Tseng Tseng Enterprise Sdn. Bhd. and De Supreme Sdn. Bhd.
132 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS (CONT’D)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2021

THIRTY LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS                                         No. of shares   %#
 No. Name                                                                          138,170,076    22.05
                                                                                   103,426,080    16.50
  1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                     34,671,288    5.53
  2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                                 33,591,272    5.36
                                                                                     27,043,084    4.32
  3. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                                                     16,812,300    2.68

  4. Chong Nyuk Kiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                           15,184,100    2.42

  5. Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.                                                 14,902,700    2.38

  6. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                           9,795,892   1.56
          - Employees Provident Fund Board
                                                                                       7,653,760   1.22
  7. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                           7,021,300   1.12
          - Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) (Kenanga)
                                                                                   6,555,876      1.05
  8. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad - Kenanga Growth Fund                     6,196,772      0.99

  9. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        5,699,532      0.91
          - Pledged securities account for Kueh Chung Peng (MQ0352)
                                                                                   5,116,268      0.82
10. Lau Liong Kii
                                                                                   4,800,932      0.77
 11. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Syariah Growth Opportunities  4,400,900      0.70
           Fund (50156 TR01)
                                                                                   3,882,896      0.62
12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Yii Ching Yii                           3,664,100      0.58

13. Annie Lau Ting Ting                                                            3,626,000      0.58

14. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         3,554,800      0.57
          - Pledged securities account for Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien (MQ0136)
                                                                                   3,271,800      0.52
15. Wong See Khong
                                                                                   3,204,096      0.51
16. Betty Lau Mei Mei
                                                                                   3,178,788      0.51
17. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Kueh Tiong Ching (E-SRK)                3,119,500      0.50

18. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         3,001,040      0.48
          - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii (MQ0348)
                                                                                   2,773,332      0.44
19. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Ting Yong Ding                          2,769,100      0.44

20. Tiong Su Sing                                                                  2,589,224      0.41

21. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                       2,570,000      0.41
          - CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Growth Opportunities Fund
           (50154 TR01)

22. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - CN CIMB Commerce Trustee Berhad for Kenanga Growth Fund Series 2

23. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii

24. Wong Poh Hwa

25. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Exempt an for Petroliam Nasional Berhad (KIB)

26. Wong Kee Hung

27. Yong Hua Tang

28. Hou, Hsin-Min

29. Puan Sri Datin Wong Bak Hee

30. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged Securities Account for Tiong Sie Mew (MQ0172)

Note:
# excluding 4,074,100 ordinary shares bought back and retained as treasury shares based on the Record of Depositors as at 1 April 2021.
                                                                                                  133 ANNUAL REPORT

ANALYSIS OF WARRANT HOLDINGS

AS AT 1 APRIL 2021

WARRANT		

		

Total number of warrants issued : 315,359,400

Exercise price of the warrants : RM0.90 each

Expiry date of the warrants  : 18 June 2023

 No. of    Size of holdings                           % of holders                No. of          % of issued
holders                                                                         warrants            warrants
           less than 100 warrants                             6.33                                       0.00
    195    100 - 1,000 warrants                             17.69                       7,842            0.09
    545    1,001 - 10,000 warrants                          31.71                   284,200              2.09
    977    10,001 - 100,000 warrants                        35.77                 6,584,497             13.72
  1,102    100,001 - less than 5% of issued warrants                            43,264,302              45.80
    260    5% and above of issued warrants                    8.44             144,420,481              38.30
           -                                                  0.06             120,798,078            100.00
        2                                                  100.00              315,359,400
  3,081

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Warrant Holdings as at 1 April 2021)

No. Name                                                                 No. of Warrants held

 1. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                Direct Interest           %     Indirect Interest    %
 2. Chong Shaw Fui                                 11,960,644                                     38.31
 3. Tiong Chiong Hiiung                                          -       3.79  120,798,078(a)
 4. Tiong Chiong Soon                                  849,812                                          -
 5. Kueh Chung Peng                                    757,680              -                  -  38.78
 6. Lau Liong Kii                                   1,226,682(d)                                  38.31
 7. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng               6,340,276(f)         0.27  122,283,944(b)
 8. Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak Banyang                   64,148                                     0.65
 9. Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen                          99,200           0.24  120,798,078(c)      5.63
10. Bong Wei Leong                                               -
                                                                 -       0.39  2,034,300(e)             -
                                                                                                        -
                                                                         2.01  17,738,772(g)            -
                                                                                                        -
                                                                         0.02                  -

                                                                         0.03                  -

                                                                            -                  -

                                                                            -                  -

Notes:

(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial holdings in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn.
      Bhd., and the interest of his spouse in the Company.

(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd., and
      the interests of his spouse in the Company.

(c) Deemed interested by virtue of his directorship in Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. and S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.

(d) 464,296 warrants are held through CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 762,386 warrants are held through RHB Nominees
      (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(e) Deemed interested by virtue of the interest of his children in the Company.

(f) 1,602,048 warrants are held through Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. and 911,348 warrants are held through CGS-CIMB
      Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

(g) Deemed interested by virtue of his substantial holdings in Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd., and the interests of his spouse and children
      in the Company.
134 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

ANALYSIS OF WARRANT HOLDINGS (CONT’D)

AS AT 1 APRIL 2021

THIRTY LARGEST WARRANT ACCOUNTS HOLDERS                                            No. of warrants    %
                                                                                       69,085,038   21.91
 No. Name                                                                              51,713,040   16.40
  1. Central Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd.                                             13,521,542
                                                                                       11,960,644    4.29
  2. S.K. Tiong Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.                                                    3,826,880    3.79
                                                                                        3,000,000    1.21
  3. Unione Enterprise (S) Sdn. Bhd.                                                    2,914,000    0.95
                                                                                        2,568,134    0.92
  4. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk                                                        2,404,838    0.81
                                                                                                     0.76
  5. Lau Liong Kii
                                                                                   2,200,000        0.70
  6. Tan Kuan Kae
                                                                                   2,034,300        0.65
  7. Khairul Azuan Bin Othman
                                                                                   2,000,000        0.63
  8. Wong See Khong
                                                                                   2,000,000        0.63
  9. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Yii Ching Yii                           1,809,000        0.57

10. Wong Wai Sun                                                                   1,665,000        0.53

 11. Kueh Tze Siong                                                                1,650,000        0.52

12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          1,602,048        0.51
          - Ukashah Bin Md Zubi
                                                                                   1,587,916        0.50
13. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Kueh Tiong Ching (E-SRK)                1,554,600        0.49

14. Wong Peng Wen                                                                  1,553,000        0.49

15. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                               1,500,000        0.48
          - Pledged securities account for Yap Kiam Bun
                                                                                   1,500,000        0.48
16. Goh Choun Mooi
                                                                                   1,500,000        0.48
17. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Lau Liong Kii                           1,423,520        0.45

18. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         1,386,666        0.44
          - Pledged securities account for Goh Sung Hien @ Goh Soon Hien (MQ0136)
                                                                                   1,200,000        0.38
19. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Ting Yong Ding                          1,100,000        0.35

20. Nordin Bin Latip                                                               1,100,000        0.35

21. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         1,100,000        0.35
          - Pledged securities account for Low Wai Chun (MY2655)
                                                                                   1,061,066        0.34
22. Low Kai Yee

23. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Nordin Bin Latip

24. Wong Kee Hung

25. Yong Hua Tang

26. Lim Siew Lay

27. Law Ah Ping

28. Low Wai Chun

29. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
          - Pledged securities account for Kwah Woi Leong (E-BPJ/JKA)

30. Betty Lau Mei Mei
                                                                                                        135 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Fifth Annual General Meeting of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad
(“the Company”) will be held at Conference Room, CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd., Lot 4147, Block 19, Seduan Land
District, Upper Lanang Road, 96000 Sibu, Sarawak on Tuesday, 25 May 2021 at 12.00 noon to transact the following
businesses:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:		                                                                                 (Please refer
			                                                                                                     to Note 1)
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020            Resolution 1

        together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.                                Resolution 2
		
2. To declare and approve the payment of a first and final single-tier dividend of 2 sen per share

        in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
		
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

4. To approve the meeting allowance payable to the Directors for the year ending 31 December Resolution 3
        2021 until the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2022.			
        		

5. To re-elect the following Directors retiring pursuant to Article 122 of the Company’s Constitution
        and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:		

        (i) Tiong Chiong Soon		                                                                         Resolution 4
                                                                                                        Resolution 5
        (ii) Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng		                                                        Resolution 6

        (iii) Bong Wei Leong		                                                                          Resolution 7
				
6. To re-appoint Messrs. Crowe Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company until the

        conclusion of the next annual general meeting and to authorise the Directors to fix their
        remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:                                                                                    Resolution 8
		
7. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following ordinary resolutions pursuant to Practice 4.2

        of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017:		
			

        Continuation in office as Independent Non-Executive Directors		
			

        (i) “THAT, approval be and is hereby given to Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak Banyang
                 who has served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a
                 consecutive term of more than nine (9) years, to continue in office as an Independent
                 Non-Executive Director of the Company.”		

(ii) “THAT, approval be and is hereby given to Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen who has served Resolution 9
        as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a consecutive term
        of more than nine (9) years, to continue in office as an Independent Non-Executive
        Director of the Company.”

(iii) “THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 6, approval be and is hereby given to Resolution 10
        Bong Wei Leong who has served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
        Company for a consecutive term of more than nine (9) years, to continue in office as an
        Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.”		
136 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONT’D)

8. To consider and if thought fit, pass the following ordinary resolution:		                             Resolution 11
			

        Proposed renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares

“THAT, subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (as may be amended, modified or re-
enacted from time to time) (“the Act”), rules, regulations and orders made pursuant to the Act,
provisions of the Company’s Constitution and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant authorities, where
applicable, the Company be hereby unconditionally and generally authorised to purchase
and/or hold such an amount of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-Back”)
as may be determined by the Directors from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such
terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit, necessary and expedient in the interest
of the Company provided that the total aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held or
to be purchased and/or held pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being and an amount of funds
not exceeding the Company’s total retained profits at the time of purchase be allocated by
the Company for the Proposed Share Buy-Back AND THAT such shares purchased are to be
retained as treasury shares and distributed as dividends and/or resold on the market of Bursa
Securities, or subsequently may be cancelled;

AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised and empowered to do all acts and
things and to take all such steps and to enter into and execute all commitments, transactions,
deeds, agreements, arrangements, undertakings, indemnities, transfers, assignments and/
or guarantees as they may deem fit, necessary, expedient and/or appropriate in order to
implement, finalise and give full effect to the Proposed Share Buy-Back with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or amendments, as
may be required or imposed by any relevant authorities and to do all such acts and things
(including executing all documents) as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best
interest of the Company;

        AND FURTHER THAT the authority hereby given will commence immediately upon the
        passing of this resolution and will continue to be in force until:
		
        (a) the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company, at which time it will

                 lapse, unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the authority is renewed,
                 either unconditionally or subject to conditions;		
				
        (b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting after that date
                 is required by law to be held; or		
					
        (c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in general
                 meeting.		
				
        whichever occurs first, in accordance with the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa
        Securities or any other relevant authorities.”
		
9. To transact any other business which may properly be transacted at an annual general
        meeting, due notice of which shall have been given in accordance with the Companies Act
        2016 and the Company’s Constitution.
		
                                           137 ANNUAL REPORT

NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONT’D)

NOTICE OF DIVIDEND ENTITLEMENT AND PAYMENT

NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN that a first and final single-tier dividend of 2 sen per share in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2020, if approved at the Twenty-Fifth Annual General Meeting, will be payable on
18 June 2021 to depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors on 3 June 2021.

A depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:

(a) shares transferred into the depositor’s securities account before 4.30 p.m. on 3 June 2021 in respect of
        transfers; and

(b) shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of
        Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

By Order of the Board of Directors

Voon Jan Moi (MAICSA 7021367)

(SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008001906)

Yap Hui Yih (MAICSA 7048748)

(SSM Practising Certificate No. 202008000570)

Joint Company Secretaries

Dated: 26 April 2021
Kuching, Sarawak

NOTES:

1. This agenda item is meant for discussion only as under the provision of Section 340 of the Companies Act 2016 and
         the Company’s Constitution, the Audited Financial Statements do not require the formal approval of shareholders and
         hence, this matter will not be put forward for voting.

2. Re-election of Director

         For Resolution 6, the Nomination Committee and the Board of Directors (“Board”) have assessed the independence
         of Mr. Bong Wei Leong and recommended him to be re-elected as the Director of the Company.

3. Continuation in office as Independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to Practice 4.2 of the Malaysian
         Code on Corporate Governance 2017

         The Nomination Committee and the Board have assessed the independence of Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak
         Banyang, Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen and Bong Wei Leong. All of them have served as Independent Non-Executive
         Directors of the Company for a consecutive term of more than nine (9) years. The Board recommended them to
         continue to act as Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company, based on the following justifications:

         (a) their experience, expertise, and networking have significant contribution to the operation and performance of
                  the Group;

         (b) they participating in deliberations at Board meetings actively by providing unbiased and independent views,
                  expressing disagreements, and stand up for their independent points of view for the best interest of the Group,
                  shareholders, employees and other stakeholders as a whole; and

         (c) they fulfill the criteria as independent directors stipulated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of
                  Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and therefore can be entrusted to discharge their duties impartially and
                  constructively.
138 CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

    NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONT’D)

4. Proposed renewal of authority for purchase of own shares by the Company

The proposed Resolution 11 if passed, will renew the authority for the Company to purchase and/or hold its own
shares up to ten per cent (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company through Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting, unless revoked or
varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders at general meeting.

Please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 26 April 2021 for further information.

5. Proxy

(a) A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There
         shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.

(b) To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at Lot
         999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak not less than 48 hours
         before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

(c) If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand
         of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing.

(d) A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the
         Company. Where a Member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he
         specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

(e) Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
         Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to
         the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account
         it holds.

		        An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central
          Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1)
          of SICDA.

(f) Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 17 May 2021 shall be regarded as members
         of the Company entitled to attend this Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on
         their behalf.
            CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

            Registration no. 199601024340 (396692-T)

FORM OF PROXY                                             Number of shares held
                                                          CDS Account No.

*I/We, _________________________________________________________ (full name)_____________________________*(I.C./Passport/Company No.)

of _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

being a member of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) hereby appoint ___________________________________________

________________________________________________________________ (full name) _______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

*and/or failing *him/her, _______________________________________ (full name) ______________________________________ (I.C./passport No.)

of __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ (full address)

or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twenty-Fifth Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held at Conference Room, CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd., Lot 4147, Block 19, Seduan Land
District, Upper Lanang Road, 96000 Sibu, Sarawak on Tuesday, 25 May 2021 at 12.00 noon and any adjournment thereof.

*My/our proxy shall vote as indicated with an “X” below. If no specific direction as to voting is given, the proxy will vote or abstain
from voting at *his/her discretion:

Resolutions                                                                                        For  Against

1. Declaration and payment of a first and final single-tier dividend for the financial year ended
       31 December 2020.

2. Payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.

3. Payment of meeting allowance to the Directors.

4. Re-election of Tiong Chiong Soon as Director.

5. Re-election of Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng as Director.

6. Re-election of Bong Wei Leong as Director.

7. Re-appointment of Messrs. Crowe Malaysia PLT as auditors.

8. Retention of Datuk Pemanca Janggu anak Banyang as Independent Non-Executive Director.

9. Retention of Datu Haji Putit bin Matzen as Independent Non-Executive Director.

10. Retention of Bong Wei Leong as Independent Non-Executive Director.

11. Proposed renewal of authority for purchase of own shares by the Company.

The proportions of *my/our holdings to be presented by *my/our proxy are as follows:

				                                       No. of shares          %

First named proxy   :				

Second named proxy :

		 Total:		

In case of a vote taken by a show of hands, the first named proxy shall vote on *my/our behalf.

Dated this  day of                         2021

                                                                                      *Signature / common seal of shareholder(s)

*  Strike out whichever is not applicable

Notes:

1. A proxy or attorney or a duly authorised representative may but need not be a member of the Company. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification
     of the proxy.

2. To be valid, the duly completed proxy form must be deposited at the registered office of the Company at Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial
     Estate, 93450 Kuching, Sarawak not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.

3. If the appointor is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in
     writing.

4. A Member shall not be entitled to appoint more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at a meeting of the Company. Where a Member appoints more than
     one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

5. Where a Member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1)
     securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
     omnibus account it holds.

     An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is
     exempted from compliance with the provisions of subsection 25A(1) of SICDA.

6. Depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 17 May 2021 shall be regarded as members of the Company entitled to attend this
     Annual General Meeting or appoint proxy to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
Fold here

                                                                                                                            PLEASE
                                                                                                                        AFFIX STAMP

                                                                                                                             HERE

           The Company Secretary
           CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

           199601024340 (396692-T)

           Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli
           Bintawa Industrial Estate
           93450 Kuching
           Sarawak, Malaysia

           Fold here
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD

199601024340 (396692-T)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)

Lot 999, Section 66, Jalan Keluli, Bintawa Industrial Estate
93450 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia
Tel : 082-336 520 Fax : 082-331 479
