KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad               Review

BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
PROFILES

                         KWAN SOK KAY

                         Non-Independent Executive Director

                                                    AGE  Date of Appointment

                                        69               1 June 2005

                         Board Meeting                                        7/7

                         Kwan Sok Kay (“Mdm. Kwan”) was appointed to the Board
                         on 1 June 2005.

                         After leaving school in 1973, she was involved in book-
                         keeping work in several companies until she joined
                         Unic Plastics Industries Sdn. Bhd., a plastic products
                         manufacturing company, as an Account cum
                         Administrative Assistant in 1975. Subsequently, she joined
                         KFM in 1984 as a Director, before holding the post of
                         Finance Director in 1986.

                         Mdm. Kwan is responsible for the financial management
                         and administrative functions of the Group, as well as
                         the implementation of accounting and operational
                         procedures, and human resource policies.

                         Mdm. Kwan is the wife of Mr. T.C. Gan, sister-in-law of
                         Mr. T.H. Gan and mother of Ms. Gan Ka Bien. She does
                         not hold any directorship in other public companies nor
                         listed issuers. She attended all seven (7) Board Meetings
                         held during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

64
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                                      2023

                                                                    BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
                                                                                        PROFILES

                                    GAN KA BIEN

                                    Non-Independent Executive Director

                                                               AGE      Date of Appointment

                                                   43                   24 November 2020

                                    Board Meeting                                            7/7

                                    Gan Ka Bien (“Ms. K.B. Gan”) was appointed to the
                                    Board on 24 November 2020. She has over 15 years of
                                    experience in marketing.

                                    Ms. K.B. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Business from
                                    the University of Technology in Sydney, Australia in 2002.
                                    She also obtained a Diploma in Marketing Research
                                    from Marketing Research Society of Australia. In 2017,
                                    she became a licensed Master Practitioner of Neuro-
                                    Linguistic Programming.

                                    In 2003, Ms. K.B. Gan started her career as a Business
                                    Manager with KFM. She was involved in promoting
                                    products to overseas and domestic markets, and was
                                    subsequently promoted to Senior Business Manager of
                                    KFM in 2012, during which time she successfully launched
                                    multiple products.

                                    In 2019, Ms. K.B. Gan was appointed as the Head of
                                    Marketing, managing the Group’s entire marketing
                                    initiatives in creating a differentiated Kawan brand for all
                                    of the Group’s products, with long term strategies. Being
                                    the head of the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility,
                                    she plays an active role in building public confidence in
                                    Kawan, its leaders, and stakeholders.

                                    Ms. K.B. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan and Mdm.
                                    Kwan. She does not hold any directorship in other public
                                    companies nor listed issuers. She attended all seven (7)
                                    Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
                                    December 2023.

                                                                                                  65
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad               Review

BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
PROFILES

                         DR. NIK ISMAIL
                         BIN NIK DAUD

                         Senior Independent Non-Executive Director

                                                    AGE  Date of Appointment

                                        73               2 January 2017

                         Board Meeting                                        7/7

                         Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud (“Dr. Nik”) was appointed to the Board
                         on 2 January 2017. He was appointed by the Board as Senior
                         Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 April 2019. He is also the
                         Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a member of Audit
                         Committee, and Nominating Committee of the Company.

                         Dr. Nik graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science (Hons)
                         from University of Malaya in 1975. Subsequently, he obtained a
                         Postgraduate Diploma in Food Science from the Catholic University
                         of Leuven, Belgium in 1976, a Master of Science in Food Science &
                         Microbiology from the University of Strathclyde, Scotland in 1978, a
                         PhD in Food Science from the University of London, United Kingdom
                         in 1983, and a Master of Business Administration from Universiti
                         Kebangsaan Malaysia (“UKM”) in 1987.

                         He began his career as a lecturer on various subjects including
                         food quality and safety systems, food microbiology, food
                         analysis, new product development, food legislation and
                         operations management, management of biotechnology, and
                         entrepreneurship in science and technology at undergraduate and
                         graduate levels in UKM in 1978. He has also conducted workshops
                         for many food companies and government agencies on food
                         technology and industry related topics since 1983. His industry
                         experience includes holding positions in food companies. He was
                         appointed as Managing Director of UKM Holdings Sdn Bhd in 2006
                         till 2014.

                         Dr. Nik has been a member of various committees including National
                         HACCP and Audit Committee, Technical Advisory Committee on
                         Malaysian Food Regulations, 1985, Technical Committee of the
                         National Food Safety Council, Malaysia, Member of National Food
                         Safety and Nutrition Council, Malaysia, National Codex Alimentarius
                         Committee, Malaysia Standards (“MS”) on Coffee, Beverages, Flour,
                         Starches and Food Safety, and a Member of the Industrial Standard
                         of Food and Food Products. Currently, he chairs the drafting of
                         revised MS on coffee and coffee products.

                         Dr. Nik was the President of the Malaysian Institute of Food
                         Technology for 18 years until 2014 and was also the former President
                         of the Federation of Institutes of Food Science and Technology,
                         Association of South East Asian Nations (FIFSTA). He is a Fellow of
                         the International Academy of Food Science and Technology, and a
                         member of IUFoST Codex Committee.

                         Dr. Nik does not have any family relationship with any Director
                         and/or major shareholder of the Company. He does not hold
                         any directorship in other public companies nor listed issuers. He
                         attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial
                         year ended 31 December 2023.

66
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                                      2023

                                                                    BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
                                                                                        PROFILES

                                    ABDUL RAZAK
                                    BIN SHAKOR

                                    Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

                                                               AGE  Date of Appointment

                                                   66               16 August 2016

                                    Board Meeting                                       7/7

                                    Abdul Razak Bin Shakor (“En. Abdul Razak”) was appointed
                                    to the Board on 16 August 2016.

                                    En. Abdul Razak attended Institute Technology MARA,
                                    Malaysia, majoring in Insurance. He has obtained the
                                    Certificate of Insurance from Lloyd’s of London, the
                                    Chartered Insurance Institute (Cert. CII), United Kingdom
                                    (“UK”) and the Institute of Risk Management (Cert. IRM),
                                    UK, and is a Fellow of the Malaysian Insurance Institute
                                    (FMII). He has more than forty-four (44) years extensive
                                    working experience in risk management, insurance, and
                                    financial services sector in Malaysia and internationally.
                                    He has served in key regional management positions in
                                    South East Asia and the Middle East, and North Africa for
                                    multinational/international organisations. Currently, En.
                                    Abdul Razak is the Founder and Managing Director of
                                    Esperanza Management Advisors Sdn. Bhd., a Specialist
                                    Risk Management consulting services firm and Chairman
                                    of Sentinel Insurance Brokers Sdn. Bhd., a Bank Negara
                                    licensed insurance, reinsurance, and takaful insurance
                                    broking company.

                                    En. Abdul Razak does not have any family relationship
                                    with any Director and/or major shareholder of the
                                    Company. He does not hold any directorship in other
                                    public companies nor listed issuers. He attended all
                                    seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year
                                    ended 31 December 2023.

                                                                                                67
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad               Review

BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
PROFILES

                         LIM HUN SOON @
                         DAVID LIM

                         Independent Non-Executive Director

                                                    AGE  Date of Appointment

                                        68               21 October 2015

                         Board Meeting                                        7/7

                         Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim (“Mr. David Lim”) was appointed to
                         the Board on 21 October 2015. He is the Chairman of the Audit
                         Committee and a member of Remuneration Committee and
                         Nominating Committee of the Company.

                         Mr. David Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics
                         from the University of Leeds in 1978 and subsequently joined Peat
                         Marwick Mitchell (now known as KPMG) in the United Kingdom (“UK”)
                         in 1978. He qualified as a member of the Institute of Taxation, UK
                         in 1981 and as a Chartered Accountant in England and Wales in
                         1982. He returned to Malaysia in 1982 to continue his service with
                         KPMG, and was admitted as a member of the Malaysian Institute
                         of Accountants (“MIA”) and the Malaysian Association of Certified
                         Public Accountants (now known as the Malaysian Institute of
                         Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”)) in 1982 and 1984 respectively.

                         Mr. David Lim had an extensive career serving as an Auditor in
                         KPMG, spanning thirty-three (33) years. During his career with
                         KPMG, he was admitted as Partner of the firm in 1990 and served
                         in the Management Committee of the firm from 1997 to 2001, and
                         in KPMG’s Partnership Supervisory Council from 2002 to 2010. He
                         was also the Asian Anchor Practice representative for Marketing
                         from 2000 to 2001, in which role he gained extensive and insightful
                         knowledge from KPMG Global counterparts worldwide.

                         In 2006, he was tasked to start up the Audit Committee Institute,
                         Malaysia, which is a virtual worldwide initiative sponsored by KPMG
                         to assist independent directors in enhancing their awareness and
                         ability to implement effective board processes.

                         Mr. David Lim actively served as an examiner for Company Law
                         examinations conducted by the MICPA for over a period of ten (10)
                         years. He was the Chairman of the MICPA Code of Ethics Committee
                         and a member of the MIA Code of Ethics Committee, both from
                         2002 to 2004. He retired from KPMG in 2011.

                         In 2013, he was appointed as a Council member of The Institute of
                         Chartered Accountants in England & Wales (“ICAEW”). This was the
                         first time that ICAEW, in its illustrious history had granted Malaysia
                         a seat on the Council. The position was for a term of two (2) years
                         till 2015. He was reappointed for a further two terms till March 2019
                         (being the maximum permitted tenure).

                         Mr. David Lim sits on the board of several public listed companies,
                         namely Ranhill Utilities Berhad, Press Metal Aluminium Holdings
                         Berhad and Public Investment Bank Berhad as an Independent
                         Non-Executive Director. He also holds directorships in Rockwills
                         Trustee Bhd.

                         Mr. David Lim does not have any family relationship with any
                         Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He attended
                         all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended
                         31 December 2023.

68
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                                      2023

                                                                    BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S
                                                                                        PROFILES

                                    EUGENE HON
                                    KAH WENG

                                    Independent Non-Executive Director

                                                               AGE      Date of Appointment

                                                   65                   22 November 2018

                                    Board Meeting                                           7/7

                                      Eugene Hon Kah Weng (“Mr. Eugene”) was appointed to the Board
                                      on 22 November 2018. He is the Chairman of the Nominating
                                      Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and
                                      Remuneration Committee of the Company.

                                      Mr. Eugene started his training in accountancy in 1979 with a
                                      reputable accounting firm and qualified as a Certified Public
                                      Accountant in 1985 with the Malaysian Association of Certified Public
                                      Accountants (now renamed as the Malaysian Institute of Certified
                                      Public Accountants). He was also admitted into the Malaysian
                                      Institute of Accountants as a Chartered Accountant.

                                      Mr. Eugene left the accountancy profession in 1991 and assumed
                                      a senior position with a large financial services group covering
                                      businesses of merchant banking, finance, insurance, leasing,
                                      money broking, and consumer financing. In 2011, he joined the
                                      Central Bank as Finance Director. While with these organisations,
                                      he gained extensive experience in management, finance, risk
                                      management and corporate governance. At the Central Bank, Mr.
                                      Eugene acquired invaluable leadership skills and gained extensive
                                      experience in corporate governance and risk management relating
                                      to central banking operations.

                                      Over the years, Mr. Eugene held key management positions, was
                                      a key member of various group committees and also served as
                                      a nominee director on the boards of various companies of the
                                      financial services group. At the Central Bank, Mr. Eugene was a
                                      key member of the financial risk management committee, crisis
                                      management committee, and served on the board of trustees for
                                      the trust funds of the Bank.

                                      Mr. Eugene sits on the board of Affin Hwang Investment Bank Berhad
                                      as an Independent Non-Executive Director since 1 March 2021.

                                      Mr. Eugene does not have any family relationship with any Director
                                      and/or major shareholder of the Company. He attended all
                                      seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
                                      December 2023.

                                    Notes to the Board of Directors’ Profiles

                                    None of the Directors has: -
                                    1. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest

                                         in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or its subsidiaries
                                         (excluding a related party transaction which has been disclosed in the
                                         Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024);
                                    2. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic
                                         offences, if any; and
                                    3. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
                                         during the financial year.

                                                                                                                       69
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                      This is                 Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                                Kawan Food Berhad       Review

KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES

    ADAM                                                              YEAP CHEE KEONG,
    PANDIAN                                                           ANDY

    Group Chief Executive Officer                                     Chief Operating Officer

                               AGE  Appointment to                             Appointment to
                                    current position:
                   61                                                     AGE  current position:
                                    January 2024
                                                                          39   July 2022

    Qualification                                                     Qualification

    • Bachelor of Business Administration, National                   • Master of Business Administration (Executive)
         University of Singapore                                           in Australian Graduate School of Management,
                                                                           University of New South Wales
    Training
                                                                      • First Class Honours degree in Bachelor of Electrical
    • Advanced Management Program by Prof. Peter Doyle,                    Engineering, University of New South Wales
         University of Warwick
                                                                      • Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of
    • Creating Competitive Advantage by Prof. Karl Moore,                  Technologists
         Oxford University
                                                                      Working Experience:
    • Strategic Management for HiPos, by Saatchi & Saatchi
    • Leaders developing Leaders Program, Kellogg                     • Over 15 years of experience in procurement,
                                                                           management, design, implementation and
         Leadership Academy                                                commissioning of factories, cold storage,
    • Kellogg Leadership coaching, Howard Epstein (New                     machineries, control systems and electrical systems
                                                                           in food, power, and water industries.
         York) and Graham Richardson (Sydney)
                                                                      • Responsible for driving factory modernisation
    Working Experience:                                                    through Industry 4.0 transformations, Manufacturing
                                                                           Excellence and sustainability initiatives.
    • Joined Kawan Food Group as Advisor to Executive
         Chairman and Head of Transformation and                      • Experience in leading the design, procurement,
         subsequently appointed as Group Chief Executive                   and construction of a state of the art frozen food
         Officer in January 2024.                                          manufacturing and storage facility with highly
                                                                           automated production lines, efficient refrigeration
    • More than 35 years of management experience                          systems, Automated Storage and Retrieval System,
         in commercial, supply chain and corporate roles,                  rainwater harvesting system, and solar photovoltaic
         developing and implementing transformation                        systems.
         strategies across various industries and organizations
         with a foundation in fast-moving consumer goods.             • Joined in April 2013 as Production Manager and was
                                                                           promoted to Senior Factory Manager in March 2014.
    • Starting his career in Procter & Gamble in brand                     Subsequently, he was promoted to Chief Operating
         management, he moved on to several senior                         Officer in July 2022.
         positions including Account Director for Leo Burnett,
         Regional Account Director for Saatchi & Saatchi,             He is the son-in law of Mr. T.C. Gan and Mdm. Kwan.
         General Manager and Commercial Director for
         Keebler, and as Managing Director for Greater China
         and Southeast Asia for Kellogg.

    • Prior to joining Kawan in April 2023, he held Chief
         Operating Officer roles in various divisions within the
         Hap Seng Group as well as corporate roles within
         the Group MD’s office where he served in change
         management, business turnarounds and driving
         group synergy across operating divisions.

    He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
    or major shareholder of the Company. He has a direct interest of
    3,330,000 ordinary shares in the securities of the Company.

70
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                  Other                                                   ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                 Information                                                                2023

                                                                                                   KEY MANAGEMENT’S
                                                                                                                   PROFILES

TS. DR. KUAN                                                       ESTHER LEE
YAU HOONG                                                          FUI MENG

Factory Manager                                                    Group Financial Controller

AGE                     Appointment to                                                        AGE  Appointment to
                        current position:                                                          current position:
39                                                                                46
                        May 2022                                                                   August 2022

Qualification                                                      Qualification
                                                                   • Chartered Accountant-Member of Malaysian Institute
• Doctor of Philosophy in Food Technology (Food
     Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia                            of Accountants
                                                                   Working Experience:
• Master of Science in Food Technology (Food                       • More than 20 years of working experience in the
     Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia
                                                                        areas of external auditing, finance operations, tax
• Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Food Science and                        compliance and planning, investment banking, and
     Nutrition, Universiti Malaysia Sabah                               corporate reporting. Prior to joining the Group, she
                                                                        worked with Ernst and Young, and in several public-
• Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of                          listed companies including investment banking,
     Technologists                                                      manufacturing, food and beverages, and others.

• Trend Scout, SIRIM Malaysia                                      She does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
• Professional Member, Research Chef Association, USA              or major shareholder of the Company.
• Professional Member, Malaysian Institute of Food

     Technology
• Professional Member, Malaysian Association for the

     Study of Obesity

Working Experience:

• More than 10 years experiences in the areas of food,
     oleochemicals, home and personal care industry and
     academic in large food manufacturing, multi-national
     corporation and renowned university.

• He started his career with Seberang Flour Mill as Food
     Technologist where he optimised flour formulations
     to enhance product performance for flour-based
     products at lower costs.

• As a lecturer cum Strategic Research Initiative of
     Taylors University where he was responsible to grow
     and drive research in the area of food biopolymers
     and colloids chemistry. Championed twice for US food
     development competition and leads the development
     and execution of projects related to his area of expertise
     and obesity with research grants of more than RM1m.
     He has contributed to the academic community by
     producing high impact research papers and articles
     that showcase his knowledge and expertise in the field.

• Prior to joining Kawan in 2022, he was working as
     Principal Researcher for Home and Personal Care at
     KLK Oleo, overseeing and leading the development
     of innovative high value applications for globally
     renowned consumer brands.

He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or
major shareholder of the Company.

                                                                                                                                     71
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                           This is                 Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                                     Kawan Food Berhad       Review

KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES

GAN                                                         KHOO BOO SENG,
MENG HOI                                                    RAYMOND

Head of National Sales                                      Head of Export

                           AGE           Appointment to                        AGE  Appointment to
                                         current position:                          current position:
               33                                                              54
                                         January 2023                               March 2017

Qualification                                               Qualification

• Fellow Member of Association of Charted Certified         • SPM
     Accountant (ACCA)
                                                            Working Experience:
• BSc (Hons) in Accounting and Finance, Sunway
     University in affiliation with Lancaster University    • More than 20 years experience in the areas of
                                                                 domestic and export sales of FMCG products, having
Working Experience:                                              worked in various companies that specialise in
                                                                 distributorship.
• More than 7 years experience in areas of finance
     operations, accounting, data analysis, and project     • He joined in May 2010 as Business Manager and was
     management                                                  promoted to Head of Export in 2017.

• He started his career with Ernst & Young focusing on
     audit.

• Prior to joining Kawan Group, he joined a private
     manufacturing Group of Companies as General
     Manager.

• More than 5 years experience in manufacturing,
     business development, sales and marketing, and
     business operations of FMCG products, having
     worked in manufacturing and trading companies.

• He joined Kawan Group in February 2019 and is
     responsible for the implementation of Kawan’s ERP
     system. He was promoted to Divisional Head of Data
     Analytics and Commercial in January 2022 and
     subsequently, promoted to Head of National Sales in
     January 2023.

         He is the son of Mr. T.H. Gan.                     He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or
                                                            major shareholder of the Company.
72
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                  Other                                ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                 Information                                             2023

                                                                                KEY MANAGEMENT’S
                                                                                                PROFILES

ZHAO
JIAN JIAN

Operational General Manager of Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd

AGE                     Appointment to
                        current position:
59
                        March 2018

Qualification

• Food Engineering specialist, Nanjing Agricultural
     University

Working Experience:

• More than 30 years experience in the areas of
     production, quality control, and operations in large
     food manufacturing and foreign food companies
     prior to joining the Group.

• He joined in August 2009 as Plant Manager and was
     promoted to Operations General Manager in March
     2018.

He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or  Notes to the Key Management’s Profiles
major shareholder of the Company.
                                                                   None of the Key Management has:
                                                                   1. held any directorship in public companies or listed issuers;
                                                                   2. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest

                                                                        in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or its subsidiaries
                                                                        (excluding a related party transaction which has been disclosed in the
                                                                        Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024);
                                                                   3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic
                                                                        offences, if any; and
                                                                   4. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
                                                                        during the financial year.

                                                                                                                                                      73
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is                     Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad           Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan”
or “the Company”) advocates the principles of good corporate
governance. Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2023
(“FY2023”), the Board and the Company continue to enhance its
corporate governance processes to ensure that the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) are aligned with best practices.

The Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview Statement”) explains how the Company has applied the
following three (3) key principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) during the FY2023:

PRINCIPLE A                        PRINCIPLE B                 PRINCIPLE C

BOARD LEADERSHIP                   EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK    INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE
AND EFFECTIVENESS                  MANAGEMENT                  REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
                                                               RELATIONSHIP WITH
          Refer to pages 75 to 83            Refer to page 84  STAKEHOLDERS
          for more info.                     for more info.
                                                                         Refer to page 85
                                                                         for more info.

This statement is prepared in compliance with Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report for detailed disclosures of the Company’s
application of the principles in the MCCG, which is available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.

74
Our Commitment to Good           Financial           Other                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance             Statements          Information                                            2023

                                                                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                               OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

The Board is collectively responsible for setting strategic directions of the Group and oversees the business affairs of the Group
to ensure long-term success. The Board’s role and responsibilities, authorities and schedule of matters reserved for the Board are
detailed in the Board Charter which is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.

In order to ensure effective discharge of the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has delegated some of its authority and powers
to its committees, namely, Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee (“Board Committees”).

     Governance structure
                                                                                         THE BOARD

            Responsible to promote long term sustainable success and generate value for shareholders and stakeholders

                                                                                 BOARD COMMITTEES
                                                     Assist the Board in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities.
                      The Board Committees are responsible for overseeing activities within its Terms of Reference (“TOR”)

        Audit Committee              Nominating Committee                  Remuneration Committee
                 (“AC”)                            (“NC”)                                   (“RC”)

Responsibilities                 Responsibilities                        Responsibilities

• Internal audit                 • Board size and composition            • Remuneration packages
• External audit                 • Selection and recruitment             • Directors’ fees and benefits
• Risk management                                                        • Performance measures for
• Financial reporting               of Directors
• Audit reports                  • Board performance                        incentive plans
• Related party transactions
• Internal controls                 evaluation
• Conflict of interest           • Committees’ performance

                                    evaluation
                                 • Directors’ training

                                 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (“GCEO”)

                                             GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM

BOARD KEY FOCUS AREAS IN FY2023

                                                  1                                   2

                        Review Group strategies,                        Acquisitions
                             plans and budget                       and Joint Venture

                                                                                                         75
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                          Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)

BOARD ACTIVITIES IN FY2023

    • During the financial year under review, the Board                  - Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Policy
         discussed and deliberated on Kawan’s opportunities              - Human Rights Policy
         in the industry, 5 years business plan, and its strategic       - Forced Labour Policy
         direction for the Group;                                        - Child Labour And Young Worker Policy
                                                                         - Working Hours Policy
    • Reviewed and approved the Audited Financial                        - Kawan Food Labour Principles
         Statements of the Company and Group for the financial           - Occupational Safety and Health Policy
         year ended 31 December 2022;                                    - Environmental Policy
                                                                    • Reviewed and approved revised Organisational Chart;
    • Discussed the proposed joint venture business to              • Received new business update on Kejap Food Sdn Bhd
         establish a joint venture company;                              and Kawan2Nature Sdn Bhd;
                                                                    • Deliberated and approved the Group’s financial
    • Discussed future business plan of Kawan Food Nantong               budget and Capex Budget for Financial Year Ending 31
         Co., Ltd;                                                       December 2023;
                                                                    • Approved the Company’s full year and interim results;
    • Reviewed and approved the conflict of interest (“COI”)        • Approved the proposed interim single-tier dividend;
         policy and COI Declaration form;                           • Discussed updates on corporate governance and
                                                                         regulatory matters;
    • Reviewed and approved the proposed investment of              • Recommended the proposed authority for the Company
         Renewable Energy – Solar Photovoltaics systems at               to purchase its own ordinary shares for shareholders’
         Kawan Food Shah Alam;                                           approval;
                                                                    • Recommended the proposed renewal of shareholders’
    • Reviewed and approved the proposed joint venture                   mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a
         business between Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn                   revenue or trading nature;
         Bhd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and          • Reviewed and approved the overall content of the
         Good2Nature Sdn Bhd to establish a joint venture                annual report;
         company;                                                   • Discussed and recommended the proposed allocation
                                                                         of Employees Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) to key
    • Reviewed and approved the proposed disposal of                     personnel for shareholders’ approval;
         32.5% equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn Bhd by KG          • Discussed and recommended the proposed
         Pastry Marketing Sdn Bhd, a wholly-owned subsidiary             amendments to the Constitution of the Company,
         of the Company;                                                 proposed amendments to the By-laws governing
                                                                         the ESOS, and proposed grant of ESOS option to the
    • Approved annual business plan and budget;                          Independent Non-Executive Directors and Non-
                                                                         Independent Non-Executive Director for shareholders’
    • Received updates and reports from the Chair of the NC              approval; and
         and RC Committees;                                         • Discuss and approved the offer of ESOS for FY2023.

    • Received updates and reports from the Chair of the AC
         on its oversight of financial performance, related party
         transactions, internal controls, risks and management
         on the work undertaken by each committee;

    • Received reports and updates from GCEO and/or
         Head of Transformation on operational and financial
         performance of the Group and other key matters;

    • Received updates on the progress of Environmental,
         Social and Governance (“ESG”) Project implementation;

    • Reviewed and approved ESG related policies:

         - Health And Nutrition Policy

         - Sustainable Ingredients and Packaging Policy

         - Responsible Marketing Policy

76
Our Commitment to Good        Financial                            Other          ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance          Statements                           Information                       2023

                                                                                  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES                                       BOARD CHARTER

The details of Board’s responsibilities are set out in the Board   The Board has adopted a Board Charter that serves as a
Charter which are available online at www.kawanfood.com.           structured guide on matters relating to the Board. The Board
                                                                   Charter is designed to provide guidance and clarity to
Executive           The roles of the Chairman and GCEO are         Directors and Management with regards to the roles of the
Chairman            separate and distinct. There is a clear        Boards and its Board Committees, the role of the Chairman and
                    division of responsibilities between the       Independent Directors, GCEO, the requirements of Directors in
Executive           two roles. The Chairman is responsible         carrying out their roles and in discharging their duties towards
Directors           for providing leadership and instilling        the Company as well as the Board’s operating practices. It also
(“ED”)              good corporate governance and                  serves as a reference point for Board activities.
                    effectiveness of the Board.
                                                                   The Board will review and update the Board Charter from time
                    The EDs are responsible for day-to-day         to time to reflect the changes to the Company’s policies and
                    management of the business operations.         procedures to ensure the Board Charter remains consistent
                                                                   with the Board’s objectives, current laws and practices. The
GCEO                The GCEO is primarily responsible for the      Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at
                    day-to-day management of the Group’s           www.kawanfood.com.
Senior              business within a set of authorities, Group’s
Independent         strategies, policies and business plans        CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS
Non-Executive       approved and delegated by the Board.
Director                                                           The Company has put in place a Code of Conduct and Ethics
(“SINED”)           The SINED acts as a sounding board             (“CoCE”) to ensure transparent and ethical conduct that
                    for the Chairman and to serve as an            permeates throughout the Group. The CoCE is available on the
Independent         intermediary for other Directors when          Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
Non-Executive       necessary. He is also the point of contact
Directors           for major shareholders and other               WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY
(“INEDs”)           stakeholders as well as a liaison for
                    whistleblowing.                                The Company has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy
Non-Independent                                                    to provides avenues for employees and external party to
Non-Executive       The INEDs are responsible for providing        raise legitimate concerns relating to potential breaches
Director (“NINED”)  insights, unbiased and independent             of business conduct, non-compliance with legal and
                    views, advice, and judgement to the            regulatory requirements as well as other malpractices The
                    Board and to ensure effective checks           Whistleblowing Policy is available on the Company’s website
                    and balances on the Board. The INEDs           at www.kawanfood.com.
                    are essential for protecting the interest
                    of shareholders, in particular minority        ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY (“ABC POLICY”)
                    shareholders, and can make significant
                    contributions to the Company’s decision        With the implementation of Section 17A Malaysia Anti-
                    making by bringing in the quality of           Corruption Commission Act coming into force in June 2020,
                    detached impartiality.                         the ABC Policy was established and updated to manage risk in
                                                                   relation to fraud, bribery and corruption practices. Additionally,
                    The NINED utilise his skills, expertise        Whistleblowing Policy was revised to provide avenues for
                    and experience to contribute to the            employees and other stakeholders to disclose concerns
                    development of the Group as a whole.           relating to violations or improper conduct or wrongdoings
                                                                   or non-compliance with legal and regulations requirements
The Board members have unrestricted access to the                  within the Group. The ABC Policy is available on the Company’s
information pertaining to the Company to discharge their duties    website at www.kawanfood.com.
and responsibilities. The Board also has access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretaries and may obtain
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense as
and when necessary.

                                                                                  77
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                                  Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                                        Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)

DIRECTORS’ FIT AND PROPER POLICY                               The objective of this policy aims to ensure that COI is handled
                                                               appropriately, promoting transparency, foster a culture of
The Company has adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy to  honesty and accountability, and good governance within
ensure a formal and transparent process for the appointment    the Group. Disclosure should occur as soon as practicable
and re-election of Directors and the appointment of Key        after the relevant facts have come to the knowledge of the
Senior Management of the Company. The execution is             individual and should be reported on a half yearly basis,
delegated to the NC, which will be reviewed and approved       including at all Board and the AC meetings.
by the Board. The Board reviews the Directors' Fit and Proper
Policy periodically, which is available on the Company’s       The COI Policy is available on the Company’s website at
website at www.kawanfood.com.                                  www.kawanfood.com.

COI POLICY                                                     BOARD COMPOSITION

The COI Policy was adopted in 2023. This policy outlines       As at 31 December 2023, the Board comprises eight (8)
the disclosure obligations of each Director and Key Senior     Directors: one (1) Executive Chairman, three (3) EDs, one
Management with respect to COI, and the procedures to be       (1) SINED, two (2) INEDs and one (1) NINED. Of the eight (8)
followed when a COI arises or potentially arises to ensure     Directors, two (2) were women. Details of the Directors can be
systematic identification, disclosure, and management of       found on pages 60 to 69 of this annual report.
COI in an effective and timely manner.

78
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                 Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                Information                     2023

                                                                               CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Board composition complied with paragraph 15.02 of            responsibilities in the best interest of the Company should be
the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires at least two (2)     the predominant factors to determine the ability of a Director
Directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the       to serve effectively as an Independent Director.
higher, to be independent.
                                                                  The Board is also confident that the Independent Directors
The NC reviewed the Board and Board Committees                    themselves, after having provided all the relevant
composition in FY2023 on an annual basis. The composition         confirmations on their independence, will be able to
of the Board comprises an appropriate balance of                  determine if they can continue to bring independent and
representation from relevant key areas that supports the          objective judgement during Board deliberations and decision
sustainability efforts in the business taking into consideration  making.
the complexity and nature of the Group’s businesses.
                                                                  DIVERSITY
BOARD INDEPENDENCE
                                                                  The Board acknowledges the importance of having diversity
The Board recognises that independence and objective              of Board, Management, and employees in terms of skills,
judgement are crucial and imperative in decision-making           expertise, gender, age, and ethnicity. The Company has put
process. The INEDs play a significant role in providing an        in place a Diversity Policy as the Company’s commitment to
unbiased and independent view, advice and judgement               diversity at all levels.
taking into account the interest of relevant stakeholders
including minority shareholders of the Group.                     During the financial year under review, there were no
                                                                  changes to Company’s Board composition. Currently, the
Pursuant to Practice 5.3 of the MCCG, the tenure of an            Board comprises two (2) female Non-Independent Executive
Independent Director does not exceed a cumulative term            Directors which accounts for 25% representation of women
of nine (9) years. Upon completion of nine (9) years, an          on the Board.
Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board as
a Non-Independent Director.                                       The Board supports the country’s aspirational target of 30%
                                                                  representation of women directors in line with Practice 5.9
However, the retention of Independent Director after serving      of MCCG and will consider a diverse range of candidates
a cumulative term of nine (9) years shall be subjected to         including female representation in future recruitment and
annual assessment by the NC, regarding the independence           selection processes.
and contributions; and annual shareholders’ approval
through two-tier voting process in a general meeting, where       The Diversity Policy is available on the Company’s website at
the Board provides valid justification on the recommendation      www.kawanfood.com.
in the explanatory notes to the resolution in the notice of a
general meeting. Notwithstanding the above, the tenure of         BOARD EVALUATION
Independent Director should not exceed a cumulative term
of twelve (12) years.                                             The Board through its NC also undertakes an annual review
                                                                  of performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board
As to-date, the tenure of all Independent Directors is less       Committees as well as the contribution of each individual
than nine (9) years of service. The Board is of the view that     Directors to the Board and Board Committees.
the independence of the Independent Directors should not
be determined solely or arbitrarily by their tenure of service.   The Board Evaluation Report indicated that the Board, Board
The Board believes that continued contribution will provide       Committees, and individual Directors continue to be highly
stability and benefits to the Board and the Company as a          effective in providing oversight of the Company and its
whole, especially their invaluable knowledge of the Group         governance.
and its operations gained through the years. The calibre,
qualification, experience and personal qualities, particularly    Following the FY2023 Board evaluation, the Board is satisfied
of the Director’s integrity and objectivity in discharging his    that the SINED and INEDs are independent to discharge their
                                                                  duties and responsibilities effectively.

                                                                               79
KAWAN FOOD       Kawan        This is                                                                       Our Strategic
BERHAD           At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                                                             Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)

TIME COMMITMENT

The Board meets once quarterly with additional meetings being convened whenever necessary, to discharge their
responsibilities effectively. The Senior Management are also invited to meetings for presentation, if required.

The attendance of the Directors at Board and its Committee meetings for FY2023 are as follows:

Member(s)                     Board                                                                    AC   NC             RC

Gan Thiam Chai
                                                                                                  7/7

Executive Chairman

Gan Thiam Hock
                                                                                                  7/7

Executive Director

Kwan Sok Kay
                                                                                                  7/7

Executive Director

Gan Ka Bien
                                                                                                  7/7

Executive Director

Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud   7/7                                                                      6/6  3/3            7/7
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director

Abdul Razak Bin Shakor

Non-Independent               7/7

Non-Executive Director

Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim      7/7                                                                      6/6  3/3            7/7
Independent
Non-Executive Director

Eugene Hon Kah Weng           7/7                                                                      6/6  3/3            7/7
Independent
Non-Executive Director

80
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                                 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

BOARD TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

The Board acknowledges the importance of continuous education and training programmes for Directors to discharge its
responsibilities effectively and to be apprised of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such regulatory
requirements will have on the Group. The Company Secretaries circulate and brief the relevant guidelines on statutory and
regulatory requirements from time to time and for the Board’s reference.

All Directors attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as required by the MMLR of Bursa Securities.

The Directors of the Company have attended the following training programmes, workshops, briefing and seminars during FY2023:

Directors                                                              Courses/Seminar/Conference
Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock  • Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II – Leading for Impact (“MAP II”)
Kwan Sok Kay
Gan Ka Bien     • MAP II

Dr. Nik Ismail  • MAP II
Bin Nik Daud
                • MAP II
Abdul Razak     • The Sustainable Brands Kuala Lumpur 2023 conference
Bin Shakor      • Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main Market Listed Issuers

Lim Hun Soon @  • MAP II
David Lim       • Webinar on International Union of Food Science and Tecnology (IUFoST) Roundtable Discussion - International Years of

Eugene Hon         Millets
Kah Weng        • Asian World Centre seminar on Board Governance Excellence Executive Roundtable Masterclass Malaysia 2023, Kuala

                   Lumpur
                • IUFoST Webinar on Food Safety Seminar
                • IUFoST on Sustainable Food Packaging: Environmental and Food Safety Issues
                • KPMG Webinar on 2023 Board and Audit Committee Priorities
                • Webinar on Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM) PowerTalk: Generative AI – An Opportunity or Risk?
                • IIM & ICDM Seminar on National Integrity Forum: Leading governance with integrity
                • Bursa Malaysia Webinar on Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main Market Listed Issuers

                • MAP II
                • Role of Insurance Broker
                • Economist Intelligence Corporate Network Forum
                • Project Risk Workshop - Perlis Inland Port KL
                • Cyber Risk Assessment Training
                • Risk Management Culture (A Takaful Perspective)

                • MAP II
                • ESG Risk Management - Oversight of ESG risks within operations and across the value chain
                • Business Considerations for Human Rights Management
                • ESG: Contextualising Net Zero
                • Global Economic Outlook 2023
                • The Generational Divide: Bridging Differences and Building Collaboration
                • Islamic Stockbroking 2023 – An Overview of Sukuk Structuring and Issues

                • Cloud day
                • Amazon Web Services (AWS) Executive Briefing
                • Media Preparedness and Crisis Simulation
                • Affin Conference Series 2023
                • Understanding Cyber Security
                • Cybersecurity Incident Management Process and BCM Awareness Talk
                • Advocacy sessions for Directors and CEOs of main market listed issuers
                • Dialogue with Bursa Market Surveillance
                • ESG Talk - Addressing challenges in implementing International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) standards
                • MAP II

                                                 81
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan            This is                            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance      Kawan Food Berhad                  Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)

             NC              ROLES

                          1  • Oversee the Board appointment process including the nomination and
                                  selection of Directors, and Key Senior Management of Kawan.
EUGENE HON KAH WENG
Independent                  • Recommend new Directors’ nomination to the Board and Key Senior
Non-Executive Director            Management of Kawan.

Membership: Chairman         • Review Board training programmes and making recommendations thereof.
                             • Assess the performance and effectiveness of individual Directors, Board, and
                          2
                                  Board Committees, which includes assessing the fitness and propriety of
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD       Directors who are due for retirement by rotation at the forthcoming Annual
Senior Independent                General Meeting (“AGM”).
Non-Executive Director       • Assess and review the Board composition (ie. size, experience, diversity etc)
                                  and organisation structure of Kawan.
Membership: Member           • Oversee the succession planning for the Board and Key Senior Management
                                  of Kawan.
                          3
                             FOCUS AREAS IN FY2023
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
Independent                                 1                                 2
Non-Executive Director
                             Succession Planning                   Assessment of
Membership: Member             for Management                   Board effectiveness

                             NC ACTIVITIES IN FY2023

                             • Reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board
                                  Committees as well as contribution of each individual Directors to the Board
                                  and Board Committees in FY2023;

                             • Discussed and reviewed Management Succession Planning;
                             • Reviewed the composition of the Board in meeting necessary skills,

                                  experience, and competency of the Board;
                             • Recommended for the Board’s approval the appointment of Mr Adam

                                  Pandian as GCEO of the Company;
                             • Reviewed the performance of GCEO and Group Financial Controller;
                             • Reviewed and assessed the term of office and performance of the AC and

                                  each of its members;
                             • Assessed Directors’ training needs in order to propose suitable orientation

                                  and training programmes;
                             • Reviewed the Directors’ retirement by rotation at the Nineteenth (“19th”)

                                  AGM of the Company held on 21 June 2023;
                             • Discussed the management structure of the Company; and
                             • Revised the organisational structure.

82
Our Commitment to Good       Financial   Other                     ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance         Statements  Information                                  2023

                                                      CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                            OVERVIEW STATEMENT

             RC              ROLES

                          1  • Assess, review, and recommend to the Board the remuneration packages of
                                  individual Directors, GCEO and Key Senior Management.
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
Senior Independent           • Review and approve performance measures for incentive plans recommended
Non-Executive Director            by the Management.

Membership: Chairman         • Assess the performance and recommend to the Board for approval the total
                                  remuneration packages of GCEO, EDs, Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”), and
                          2       Key Senior Management.

LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM     REMUNERATION PACKAGES
Independent
Non-Executive Director       The remuneration packages for the EDs and Key Senior Management comprises
                             basic salary, benefits in kind, bonuses, and allowances which reflects their roles and
Membership: Member           performance for the year. The NED’s remuneration package comprises Directors’
                             fees, benefits in kind, and meeting allowances which reflect the individual’s role
                          3  and responsibilities. The Board remuneration is reviewed by benchmarking against
                             peer companies.
EUGENE HON KAH WENG
Independent                  The Chairman of the AC, RC, and NC receives higher fees in consideration of their
Non-Executive Director       service as a chairman of the respective committees. The Directors will receive an
                             additional fee if they are members of the Board Committees. The fees for Directors
Membership: Member           are determined by the Board with approval from shareholders at the AGM.

                             The interested Directors abstained from deliberation and voting on their own
                             remuneration at the Board meetings.

                             The remuneration of the Directors on a named basis for FY2023 are
                             disclosed in the CG Report which is available on the Company’s website at
                             www.kawanfood.com.

                             FOCUS AREAS IN FY2023

                                                1              2                  3

                                          Revised    Performance       Remuneration
                                         Balanced   Management &        Package for
                                         Scorecard  Reward System  Directors and GCEO

                             RC ACTIVITIES IN FY2023

                             • Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval, the Directors fees
                                  and benefits payable (including allowances) to the Directors. The Board will
                                  then recommend to the shareholders for approval at the AGM;

                             • Reviewed the terms of engagement and remuneration package of GCEO;
                             • Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval the following matters:

                                  a) Salary adjustment and bonus for EDs and Key Senior Management;
                                  c) Performance evaluation and bonus allocation of GCEO; and
                                  d) Remuneration package of Chief Operating Officer.
                             • Reviewed and deliberated on the Balance Scorecard, Key Performance
                                  Indicators and Performance Management, and Reward System.

                                                                                                                                       83
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad  Review

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     PRINCIPLE B EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

                                                                                 AC

                                                                                 The AC of the Company comprises one (1) SINED and two (2) INEDs.
                                                                                 Collectively, the AC members are financially literate, possess commercial
                                                                                 expertise skills, and experience to enable them to discharge their duties
                                                                                 and responsibilities pursuant to the AC’s TOR.

                                                                                 Based on the recommendation of MCCG, the AC requires a former key
                                                                                 audit partner to observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years
                                                                                 before being appointed as a member of the AC.

                                                                                 The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory and fiduciary
                                                                                 responsibilities on financial reporting, compliance with applicable
                                                                                 financial reporting standards and other legal requirements, internal audit,
                                                                                 external audit functions, and risk management of the Group.

                                                                                 On an annual basis, the AC reviews and evaluates the suitability, objectivity,
                                                                                 and independence of the External Auditors, taking into consideration the
                                                                                 following:

                                                                                 • Technical competencies
                                                                                 • Independence and objectivity
                                                                                 • Audit scope and planning
                                                                                 • Adequacy of technical support
                                                                                 • Time commitment
                                                                                 • Audit and non-audit fees

                                                                                 The details on the roles of the AC are set out in AC report of this annual
                                                                                 report.

SOUND RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in maintaining an effective risk management and internal control
system to safeguard stakeholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. The AC assists the Board in the oversight of proper
implementation of risk management and control system.

The Group has established a robust risk management framework as an approach to identify, assess, report, and monitor risks
facing the Group. Kawan maintains a risk register comprising Group-wide risks specific to the business activities, which is
reviewed and updated every quarter.

The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to a professional service firm which is independent of the activities and
operations of the Group. The outsourced Internal Auditors reports directly to the AC. The Internal Audit function is primarily
responsible in assessing and improving the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control systems, and governance
processes within the Group.

The statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set out in this annual report provides a detailed description of the
state of risk management and internal controls.

84
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                  Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                 Information                     2023

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                      OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE C INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

Communications with Stakeholders                                   are the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders. The
                                                                   AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to understand
The Board recognises the importance of effective                   the financial and operational performance of the Company
communication between the Company, investors, shareholders,        and to pose questions to the Chairman, other Directors, and
stakeholders, and public at large to provide timely, accurate,     key management. The Chairman allocated sufficient time
and equal access to material information on the Group’s            to encourage the shareholders, proxies and the corporate
performance and operations.                                        representatives to ask questions pertaining to the matters
                                                                   tabled at general meetings, or voice any concerns. The Board,
Kawan engages with its stakeholders by way of announcements        Management team, and the Company’s External Auditors
via Bursa Securities and press releases. All financial results,    were present at the meetings to answer questions raised and
notice of dividends and ad-hoc announcements are available         provide clarification as required by the shareholders, proxies,
on the Bursa Securities’ website. The investor relations section   and corporate representatives.
which is available on the Company’s corporate website at
www.kawanfood.com contains information on Kawan such               The notice of AGM sets out the resolutions together with the
as our corporate profile, annual reports, Board of Directors,      Company’s Annual Report, was circulated to shareholders at
AGM, etc., for both existing and potential shareholders. The       least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the meeting to provide
stakeholders can reach out to Kawan should they require            shareholders with sufficient time for consideration and to make
further information or assistance.                                 informed decisions. Shareholders who are unable to attend
                                                                   are allowed to appoint proxies to attend, speak, and vote on
Kawan also organised meetings with analysts, institutional         their behalf. The voting at the 19th AGM was conducted through
fund managers, shareholders, and potential investors. Our          electronic poll voting, of which the votes cast were validated
discussions generally covers the topics of financial and business  by an independent scrutineer. The outcome of all resolutions
performance, outlook, and strategic direction of the Group.        proposed at the AGM announced to Bursa Securities at the end
                                                                   of the meeting day, while the minutes of the AGM was circulated
General Meetings                                                   to the shareholders not later than 30 business days after the
                                                                   meeting.
The 19th AGM and Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) of
the Company was held physically in 2023. The AGM and EGM           This Statement was approved by the Board on 18 April 2024.

                                                                                            85
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad  Review

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTRODUCTION

The Board of Directors (“The Board”) is pleased to provide the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control of Kawan Food Berhad (“the Company” or “Kawan”)
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) which outlines the nature of risk management and
internal control of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. This
statement has been prepared pursuant to paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and by the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers
and Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).

                         Board responsibilities
                         The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility of the Group’s
                         system of risk management and internal control. The Board
                         remains committed to put in place an ongoing process for
                         reviewing its adequacy and integrity in order to safeguard
                         shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets.

                         The Board has delegated the risk management responsibilities
                         to the Audit Committee (“AC”) which provides oversight on the
                         Group’s risk management and internal control systems. The
                         adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls were reviewed
                         by the AC in relation to the audits conducted by Internal Audit
                         (“IA”) during the year.

                         Nevertheless, the Board recognises that the systems are
                         designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure.
                         It can therefore only provide a reasonable, rather than absolute
                         assurance against material misstatement or losses.

                         Jointly controlled companies were excluded as the Board does
                         not have direct control over its operations. However, the Group’s
                         interest in these entities is served through its representation on
                         the Board of these jointly controlled companies.

                         Risk culture
                         The risk culture is driven from the top and strengthened by the
                         middle Management, which serves as the foundation upon
                         which a robust risk management framework is built.

                         Risk management updates are continuously communicated
                         and reinforced throughout the Group to cultivate its
                         identification, assessment, and mitigation of risks. The Group
                         has instilled a culture in which the Board, Management and
                         the employees are committed to strengthening processes and
                         controls in managing business activities.

86
Our Commitment to Good  Financial              Other                          ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements             Information                                       2023

                                                            STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                           AND INTERNAL CONTROL

 Risk Management (“RM”) Framework                                             Risk Management Process
                                                                              The Group has in place a risk
                                           BOARD OF DIRECTORS                 management process that provides
• Accountable for the governance of risk management and internal control      a structured approach to ensure that
                                                                              there is an on-going process to identify,
     systems.                                                                 prioritise, and manage risks exposure,
                                                                              as illustrated below:
                                                          AC
• Oversees the implementation of risk management framework, policies,                                       1
                                                                                 Identify existing and potential risks
     and procedures in identifying and managing risks across the Group;          including emerging risks as well as
• Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management          changes affecting existing risks

     systems.                                                                                               2
                                                                                 Assess risks
                  RISK MANAGEMENT WORKING COMMITTEE (“RMWC”)
• Provides adequate support to AC with regards to risk management;               Assess likelihood and impact of
• Chaired by the CEO and supported by Head of Departments/Functional             these risks using risk matrix

     Heads;                                                                                                 3
• Identify, assess, and monitor the Group’s risks.                               Evaluate risks
• Oversees the quarterly report on risk exposures and risk management
                                                                                 Determine the significance and
     activities to facilitate understanding and determination of appropriate     risk level of these threats – high,
     risk responses. The risk management report is communicated to AC on a       significant, moderate and low
     quarterly basis for review and discussion.
                                                                                                            4
                                 RISK MANAGEMENT UNIT (“RMU”)                    Decide risks responses
• Performs risk assessments to identify, evaluate, and manage material
                                                                                 – how to manage and control risks
     risks.
                                                                                                            5
    1ST LINE               2ND LINE               3RD LINE                       Monitor continuously the identified
OF DEFENCE              OF DEFENCE             OF DEFENCE                        risks and their controls in place.

         Business        Risk Management             Internal and                                           6
            Units                                  External Audit                Report
                        Provide oversight
Risk management         and support to         Provide independent               Present risk reports to the AC and
on a day-to-day         first line of defence  assurance to the AC               highlight new/emerging risk areas
basis through           by identifying,        and Board on the                  and the controls in place.
effective controls.     managing, and          effectiveness and
                        monitoring risk        adequacy of the
                        including policies,    risk management
                        procedures and         framework.
                        training.

                                                                              87
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                              This is                                              Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                        Kawan Food Berhad                                    Review

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Managing risks within the Group involves an on-going                The following table highlights the key focus areas of their
assessment process to identify, evaluate, and manage                deliberations in FY2023:
significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been in
place for the year under review and up to the date of approval      Impact                          Mitigation measures
of this statement.

Kawan maintains a risk register. The risk register is reviewed      Focus area
and updated every quarter by RMWC. The Risk Officer then
provides the AC with the Group Risk Management Reports at           STRATEGIC
its scheduled meetings.
                                                                    Risk of loss arising from       • Annual strategy and
The AC deliberated on the material risks identified on a            adopting wrong business            budget setting exercises
quarterly basis and the AC Chairman subsequently reported           strategies, failure to
updates to the Board with respect to risk management and            execute business strategies     • Transformation
mitigation procedures.                                              or failure to respond to           oversight by Head of
                                                                    changes in the industry/           Transformation
Activities in FY2023                                                economy
In FY2023, we engaged with internal and external stakeholders                                       • Regular tracking of
to understand risks that could materially impact Kawan.                                                financial performance
Effective risk management allows Kawan to mitigate these                                               to ensure progress is
risks whilst leveraging opportunities that improve Kawan’s                                             maintained.
competitive edge.
                                                                                                    • Business review meetings
During the financial year, the AC carried out the following
activities in discharging its duties and functions:                 Focus area

                       Set direction for the Group Risk             RISING COSTS AND INFLATION
                       Management
                                                                    Risk related to long term       • Tracking and monitoring
                       Reviewed key strategic, financial,           strategic objectives               financial performance on
                       regulatory, operational risks, and actions   of the business due to             a monthly basis.
                       based on the risk register external          unsustainable growth
                       assessments and internal audit findings.     and inflationary pressure       • Supplier portfolios
                                                                    arising from political             reviews
                       Continuously monitored the effectiveness of  instability, civil unrest, and
                       measures taken by the Group                  other persistent challenges     • Stay informed of
                                                                    to the supply chain.               geo-political events
                       Set priorities on emerging risks and                                            impacting markets
                       mitigation actions
                                                                    Focus area

                                                                    EMPLOYEES

                                                                    Risk of losing competent        • Provide training
                                                                    employees, with the right          programme to enhance
                                                                    skills, commercial acumen,         skill sets and capabilities
                                                                    and knowledge poses
                                                                    potential challenges in         • Implement succession
                                                                    implementing the Group’s           planning strategies.
                                                                    strategies.
                                                                                                    • Compensations and
                                                                                                       benefits review.

                                                                                                    • Compensation incentive
                                                                                                       schemes including
                                                                                                       Employees Share Option
                                                                                                       Scheme and annual
                                                                                                       bonuses to enhance
                                                                                                       retention

                                                                                                    • Corporate Social
                                                                                                       Responsibility Initiatives

    Reassessed risks including the generation                       Priorities for FY2024
    of a heat map and risk register.                                The RMWC will continue to support the Group’s business
                                                                    strategies while managing the risk. Priorities for FY2024
    Oversaw the effectiveness of Business                           include:
    Continuity Management programme via
    implementation of tests and simulation to                       • enhance monitoring for more effective risk management;
    strengthen the Group’s resilience during                        • continue to enhance emerging risk controls; and
    disaster or crisis                                              • continue to test the resilience of the Business Continuity

                                                                         Management activities.

88
Our Commitment to Good       Financial                            Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance         Statements                           Information                     2023

                                                                  STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                                 AND INTERNAL CONTROL

MATERIAL RISKS                                                    INTERNAL AUDIT
The principal risks are classified based on following             The Group’s Internal Audit function (“GIA”) is an outsourced
categories: strategic risk, financial risk, technology risk,      professional service provider that reports independently to
operational risk, food risk, health and environment, regulatory   the AC. The GIA provides risk based and objective assurance
risk, and people risk. In FY2023, Kawan carried out a new risk    on the adequacy, efficiency, and effectiveness of risk
assessment exercise, of which Kawan collated inputs from          management, control, and governance. The selection of the
both external and internal stakeholders. The risks identified     areas to be audited is based on an annual audit plan that
are further prioritised based on their residual risk ratings and  is approved by the AC. The annual audit plan is developed
future risks outlooks.                                            based on risk assessments of Kawan Group.

The table below presents a summary of the Group’s material        During the financial year, the GIA have carried out reviews
risks and the mitigating measures for the FY2023.                 which involved assessing the adequacy of controls over the
                                                                  following:

Description                  Mitigation

Machine Failure                                                   IT Security Management
                                                                  Organisational Governance & Compliance
(Operational)                                                     Anti-Corruption Programme

Risk of loss resulting       • Preventive maintenance
from failures of systems,       initiatives
machineries, and
processes.                   • Optimising inventory
                                management for critical
                                spare parts

HALAL                                                                                Recurrent Related Party Transaction

(Regulatory)                                                                         Production and Cost Management

Risks of suspension          • Third party independent                               Supply Chain Management
of operations or logo           audits                                               - Warehousing & Logistics
withdrawal leading to
imposition of penalties or   • Collaborate with industry                             Review of NetSuite ERP System
fines arising from failure      and trade bodies to
to comply with HALAL            share best practices in                              Review of KFN
regulations.                    HALAL systems.
                                                                  Upon completion of the audit assignment, the GIA provides an
                             • Strengthen liaison with            audit report which covers the scope of audit work performed,
                                regulatory authorities for        evaluation of the internal control systems with detailed
                                improved relations.               audit observations, management responses and timeline
                                                                  to implement the GIA’s recommendation. All significant and
Operational costs                                                 material findings by the internal auditors are reported to the
                                                                  AC for review and deliberation. The AC assesses the overall
(Operational)                                                     adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems
                                                                  and reports the deliberations and material findings to the
Risk of Margin could be      • Monitoring supply                  Board.
affected by fluctuations in     availability
the operational costs.
                             • Exploring alternative
                                vendors

                             • Strengthen liaison with
                                vendors for improved
                                relations.

                             • Higher production
                                efficiency

                                                                                                          89
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan             This is                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance       Kawan Food Berhad                          Review

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The key features of the Group’s internal control system are as follows:

    The AC and the Board                                          Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”)
    The Board has delegated its authority in overseeing the       WBP provides internal and external parties with accessible
    adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s risk      channels to raise concerns or disclose information
    management and internal control systems to the AC. The        regarding suspected or known malpractices, misconducts
    AC has oversight of the independence, scope of work and       or wrongdoings within the Group without fear of any form
    resources of the Internal Audit. The AC meets quarterly to    of victimisation, harassment, retribution or retaliation.
    review audit and investigations reports prepared by IA. The
    effectiveness of the internal control system is monitored     Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has
    and evaluated by the AC on an ongoing basis.                  oversight over the access to the whistleblowing cases and
                                                                  the whistleblowing processes. The WBP is available on the
    Further details on AC activities can be found on AC report.   Group’s website.

    Organisation Structure & Authority Limits                     Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABAC”)
    The Group has a formal organisation structure with clearly    The Group maintain a a zero-tolerance approach against
    defined accountabilities, reporting lines and authority in    bribery and corruption.
    order to align to its business and operational needs.
                                                                  The Group’s ABAC sets out principles and clear procedures
    The Limit of Authority clearly outlines the Board and         for all donations, sponsorships, hospitality, and gifting
    Management’s limits and approval authorities across           activities of the Group. The ABAC also provide guidance
    various key processes. The delegation of authorities is duly  to all employees on how to deal with improper solicitation,
    approved by the Board and subject to review and update        bribery, and other corrupt activities.
    to reflect business and operational changes and needs.
                                                                  This policy applies to all stakeholders and employees
    Annual Budget and Financial Projections                       of Kawan and the Group. All employees are required to
    The Group’s annual budget is deliberated and approved         declare that they have read, understood, and will abide by
    by the Board on an annual basis. Actual performances are      the Policy. Ongoing training on ABAC sessions are carried
    reviewed against the approved budget with explanations        out to raise awareness on corporate liability.
    of major variances and presented to the Board.
                                                                  People Development
    Group Policies and Procedures                                 A succession planning has been established to strengthen
    The Group has put in place documented policies and            the Group’s talent and succession. In respect of this,
    procedures which covers a wide range of areas including       the Group has identified the potential talent within the
    food safety, security, product quality assurance, human       organization and has provided structured leadership
    resource, and purchasing to provide guidance for the          development programme and coaching in making
    employees. These policies are subject to review as and        these talent ready for future leadership. The Group will
    when required to ensure its relevance to the Group’s          continue to develop its human capital by improving talent
    operations and continue to support the Group’s business       management, learning and development, organisation
    activities as it continues to grow.                           design, and remuneration and performance management.

    Human Resource Policies and Procedures                        Information and Communication
    The HR Policies and Procedures of the Group incorporates      The Group has in place effective communication of critical
    policies and guidelines on human resource management          information channels across the Group. Matters that
    in the Group. These policies and procedures are reviewed      require Board and Senior Management’s attention are
    as and when the need arises and are communicated to           highlighted for review, deliberation, and decision making
    employees via email.                                          on a timely basis.

90
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                            Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                           Information                     2023

                                                             STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                            AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Monitoring and Review                                        REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Monthly management reports comprising key financial          Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities
results and operational performance are reviewed and         Berhad’s MMLR, the External Auditors have reviewed this
monitored by the management team. Quarterly financial        Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for
statements are presented to the AC and the Board for their   inclusion in the FY2022 Annual Report. Their review was
review, consideration and approval.                          performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice
                                                             Guide 3: Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report
Business Continuity Management (“BCM”)                       on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
BCM programme is part of our commitment in enhancing         included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
business resilience throughout our Group. We have put        Institute of Accountants. Based on their review, nothing has
in place a BCM programme which provides a systematic         come to their attention that causes them to believe that
approach and consistent practices to build organisational    this statement is not prepared, in all material respect, in
resilience with adequate capability mechanisms to ensure     accordance with the disclosures required by paragraph 41
continuation of business and operations. Kawan has also      and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
established a Crisis Management Framework to provide         Control: Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, or is factually
guidance on establishing a comprehensive approach in         inaccurate.
managing crises. These plans will be reviewed and tested
accordingly to ensure effectiveness and relevance to the     CONCLUSION
current business environment.                                The Chief Operating Officer and Group Financial Controller
                                                             have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
External Certifications                                      management and internal control systems are operating
The Group continues to adopt relevant safety, quality,       adequately and effectively, in all material aspects.
HALAL, and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment
Series certification systems.                                The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal
                                                             control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in any
All of our manufacturing sites are subject to independent    material losses, contingencies, nor uncertainties that would
third-party audits under BRCGS Global Food Safety            require separate disclosure in the Group’s annual report.
Standard.                                                    Nevertheless, the Board shall continue to take the appropriate
                                                             and necessary measures to continuously improve the Group’s
The Group has been awarded MS1480: 2019 HACCP food           risk management and internal control system to meet the
safety certification and Veterinary Health Mark (VHM) that   Group’s corporate objectives.
supports the Group on the issuance of Health Certificate
for our exports.                                             This statement was approved by the Board on 18 April 2024.

The Group was awarded the HALAL “WhiteList” status by
the Malaysian Islamic Development Department (JAKIM)
and Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) for HALAL fast
track application, which allows JAKIM and JAIS to expedite
the issuance of HALAL certificates within three (3) working
days. The comprehensive Halal Assurance System has
been established and the Group will be subject to ad-hoc
audits from time to time to ensure compliance with the
systems. We also engaged 3rd party halal auditor to ensure
high compliance of our HALAL assurance system.

                                                                          91
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                    This is                      Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance              Kawan Food Berhad            Review

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

    COMPOSITION                      The AC’s composition meets the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of
                                     Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), which requires that at least
The Audit Committee ("AC")           one member of the AC must fulfil the financial expertise requisite of paragraph
comprises three (3) members,         15.09(1)(c) of MMLR of Bursa Securities. The AC Chairman and a member of AC are
all of whom are independent          members of the MIA and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Non-Executive Directors ("INED"):    (MICPA).

                          1          For the financial year under review, the Board of Directors (“Board”) evaluated
                                     the performance and effectiveness of the AC via the Nominating Committee’s
LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM*            review of the term of office and performance of the AC and its members and was
Independent                          satisfied that the AC members were able to and had discharged their functions
Non-Executive Director               and responsibilities in accordance with the Terms of Reference of the AC.

Membership: Chairman                 The role, scope, and responsibilities of the AC are set out in its Terms of Reference
                                     which are accessible on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.
                          2
                                     Further details of the AC members’ experience and qualification are available in
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD          Directors’ profiles.
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director               MEETINGS
                                     The AC conducted six (6) meetings during the financial year ended 31 December
Membership: Member                   2023 (“FY2023”), details of which are set out as follows:

                          3          Name                         No. of Meetings Attended
                                     Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                       6/6
EUGENE HON KAH WENG*                 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                    6/6
Independent                          Eugene Hon Kah Weng                            6/6
Non-Executive Director
                                     The Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”), Company Secretaries, Group Financial
Membership: Member                   Controller, Corporate Affairs Manager, and Management were invited to attend
                                     the meetings to present their reports and provide appropriate information as well
* Member of the Malaysian Institute  as clarification to relevant items on the agenda. The Internal Auditors were invited
      of Accountants (MIA).          to present the internal audit reports to the AC during the AC meetings, to present
                                     specific issues arising from audit findings. The External Auditors also attended the
                                     AC meeting to present their annual audit plan, annual financial statements, and
                                     other matters deemed relevant.

                                     The AC Chairman reported to the Board activities and significant matters discussed
                                     at each AC meeting. Deliberations during the AC meetings were recorded. Minutes
                                     of the AC meetings were tabled for confirmation at the following AC meeting and
                                     subsequently tabled to the Board for notation.

92
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                   Other                           ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                  Information                                        2023

                                                                                 AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                                                 REPORT

KEY ACTIVITIES IN FY2023                                            • Reviewed effectiveness of the IA through evaluation of
                                                                       performance, adequacy of resources, and competencies
Financial Reporting                                                    of the Internal Auditors; and
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval:
                                                                    • Reviewed the overall performance of the IA, including
   - quarterly unaudited financial results including                   assessment of their independence, technical competency,
      announcements to Bursa Securities; and                           and sufﬁciency of its manpower and budget to carry out its
                                                                       work.
   - audited financial statements of the Company and its
      subsidiaries (“the Group”) to reflect the true and fair view  Risk Management and Internal Control
      of the business results and financial position of the Group   • Reviewed Kawan’s top risk profiles and deliberated on the
      and that the financial statements were prepared in
      compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard           significant threats and opportunities on a quarterly basis;
      (MFRS).                                                       • Reviewed quarterly risk management reports on risk

• Discussed and resolved all key accounting matters that               management activities, exposure and mitigating actions;
   arose during the year; and                                       • Reviewed, tracked, and monitored, on an ongoing basis,

• Reviewed and deliberated on audit issues raised by the               the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk
   External Auditors and the action plans required to address          management systems; and
   them.                                                            • Continuous review the effectiveness of Group’s Business
                                                                       Continuity Management and performing simulation and
External Audit                                                         testing exercises across the Group
• Reviewed and approved the external audit plan including
                                                                    Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”)
   scope of work and approach for FY2023;                           • Reviewed all RPTs on a quarterly basis to ensure RPTs
• Had two (2) meetings with the External Auditors without the
                                                                       were carried out on an arm's length basis and on normal
   presence of the Management to discuss relevant issues               commercial terms, consistent with the Company and
   and concerns arising from the audits;                               Group’s usual business practices and policies, which are
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board, the                           not more favourable than those generally available to the
   re-appointment of External Auditors, taking into                    third parties/public, and are not to the detriment of the
   consideration their competencies, commitments,                      minority shareholders;
   independence, and objectivity;                                   • Reviewed and deliberated on RPTs, recurring and potential
• Assessed the independence and objectivity of the External            conflict of interest that may arise; and
   Auditors and recommended to the Board the audit and              • Reviewed and recommended for Board’s approval the
   non-audit fees payable to External Auditors; and                    Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board, the appointment               renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related
   of new External Auditors in Kawan Food (Nantong)                    party transactions of revenue or trading nature.
   Co., Ltd, taking into consideration their competencies,
   commitments, independence, objectivity, audit and non-           Annual Report
   audit fees payable to External Auditors.                         • Reviewed and recommended the following to the Board for

Internal Audit (“IA”)                                                  approval:
• Reviewed and reported to the AC on the IA plans pertaining           a) Audited Financial Statement;
                                                                       b) Management Discussion and Analysis;
   to their consistency with the Enterprise Risk Management            c) Sustainability Statement;
   Framework, specifically focusing on high risk areas                 d) Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control;
   identiﬁed, together with the results of assessments;                e) Audit Committee Report;
• Reviewed IA report on a quarterly basis;                             f) Corporate Governance Overview Statement; and
• Reviewed the internal control issues identified by                   g) Corporate Governance Report.
   Internal Auditors, management’s response to audit
   recommendations and the implementation of the action
   plans;
• Monitored the implementation of corrective actions by
   Management;
• Had private sessions with the IA without the presence of
   Management to discuss relevant issues and concerns
   arising from the audits;

                                                                                 93
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                          Review

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

Other Matters                                                       In accordance with the annual IA plan approved by the AC,
• Reviewed the financial projection on proposed investments         the IA conduct the following audits:-

   and joint ventures businesses made by the Group;                                    IT Security Management
• Reviewed export sales growth in 2023 and 2024 projections;                           Organisational Governance & Compliance
• Reviewed the key account and distributor growth in 2023                              Anti-Corruption Programme
                                                                                       Recurrent Related Party Transaction
   and 2024 projections;                                                               Production and Cost Management
• Reviewed the budget for the Group on a yearly basis;                                 - Warehousing & Logistics
• Reviewed the effectiveness of Anti-Bribery and Anti-                                 Review of NetSuite ERP System
                                                                                       Production Management
   Corruption (“ABC”) controls in relation to the ABC Policy;
• Reviewed the allocation of the share options pursuant

   to Employees Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) to ensure
   compliance with the MMLR of Bursa Securities and ESOS’s
   By-Laws;
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board the Conflict of
   Interest Policy of the Group for approval and adoption;
• Reviewed the Group’s updates on key governance matters
   and observations in regards of the provisions set out in the
   Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance pursuant to the
   MMLR of Bursa Securities;
• Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
   the Statement to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
   renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own
   ordinary shares; and
• Reviewed the proposed dividend payout taking into
   consideration the cash flow requirements before
   recommending for Board’s approval.

IA FUNCTION

The IA function of Kawan is outsourced to a professional firm,      Supply Chain Management
Tricor Axcelasia Sdn Bhd to provide independent and objective       Review of KFN
assurance on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of
internal controls.

The Group IA activities were performed by a team of four            The audits were performed using a risk-based approach
(4) to five (5) professional Internal Auditors, led by Ms           and guidance from the International Professional Practice
Sarine Loo (“Ms. Sarine”) who has 25 years of experience in         Framework. The IA results comprising progress of previous
risk management, IA and corporate governance advisory               auditable processes action plan were presented and
services. Ms. Sarine is a professional member with the Institute    reviewed by the AC.
of Internal Auditors of Malaysia (“IIAM”).
                                                                    The total costs incurred for outsourcing the IA function of
The number of staff deployed for the IA reviews ranges from         Kawan for the FY2023 was RM179,094.
4 to 5 staffs per visit including the Engagement Director.
The IA staff who performed the IA reviews have professional         Further details of the IA functions can be found on the Annual
qualifications and/or university degree. Some of the IA staff are   Report under the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. All the     Control.
IA staff were free from any relationships or conflict of interest,
which could impair their objectivity and independence.

94
Our Commitment to Good       Financial   Other                            ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance         Statements  Information                                         2023

ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

Pursuant to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

MATERIAL CONTRACTS

There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interest which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year ended or which were entered into since the end of the
previous financial year (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) except as disclosed below and in
Notes 37 to the financial statements under “Related Parties” on pages 182 to 184 of this Annual Report.

AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the Company
and the Group to the External Auditors are as follows:

                                         Company                          Group
                                             (RM)                          (RM)

Audit services rendered                  56,500                           271,537

Non-audit services rendered              8,000                            8,000

Total                                    64,500                           279,537

UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS

There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31 December
2023.

RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE

At the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on Wednesday, 21 June 2023, the Company obtained a shareholders’
mandate to allow the Group to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature. The disclosure
of the recurrent related party transactions conducted during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 is set out on page
183 of the Annual Report.

                                                                                   95
KAWAN FOOD         Kawan                     This is                  Our Strategic
BERHAD             At A Glance               Kawan Food Berhad        Review

    5 SEC 04                                 5 SEC 05
          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                     OTHER INFORMATION

Statement on Directors’ Responsibility  97   List of Properties                      191

Directors’ Report                       98   Analysis on Shareholdings               194

Statements of Financial Position        105  Notice of the Twentieth

Statements of Profit or Loss and Other       Annual General Meeting                  197

Comprehensive Income                    107  Administrative Details                  203

Statement of Changes in Equity          109  * Proxy Form

Statements of Cash Flows                111

Notes to the Financial Statements       114

Statements by Directors                 186

Statutory Declaration                   186

Independent Auditors’ Report            187

96
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

STATEMENT ON DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad to issue a statement explaining the Board’s responsibility in preparing the annual financial statements.

In preparing the annual financial statements of the Company and the Group, the Directors are collectively responsible to
ensure that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions of the Companies Act,
2016 (“the Act”) so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at the end of the
financial year and of the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
ended on that date.

In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023, the Directors have:

i) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
iii) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
iv) ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departure and explained in the

     financial statements.

The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Act.

The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

This Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 18 April 2024.

                                                 97
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                               This is                            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad                  Review

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries are as stated
in Note 9 to the financial statements.

RESULTS

                                                                                   Group           Company
                                                                                       RM                    RM

Profit for the financial year attributable to:                                     30,128,633      17,180,532
   Owners of the Company                                                                        -              -
   Non-controlling interests
                                                                                   30,128,633      17,180,532

In the opinion of the directors, the financial results of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

DIVIDEND

The amount of dividend paid by the Company since the end of previous financial year were as follows:

In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023, an interim single tier dividend of 3.6 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM13,021,188 was declared on 27 February 2023 and paid on 31 March 2023.

The directors do not recommend any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

In respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2024, an interim single tier dividend of 4.2 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM14,703,023 was declared on 6 March 2024 and paid on 2 April 2024.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the
financial statements.

ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.

98
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                            2023

                                                 DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart from the issue
of options pursuant to the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).

At an extraordinary general meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment of the ESOS of
not more than 15% of the issued share capital of the Company to eligible employees of the Group and of the Company.

The salient features of the ESOS are, inter alia, as follows:

(i) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years commencing from the effective date on or before the expiry thereof,
        the Board of Directors shall have the sole and absolute discretion upon recommendation of the ESOS Committee, without the
        Company’s shareholders’ approval in a general meeting, to extend in writing the tenure of the ESOS for another five (5) years,
        or such shorter period as it deems fit immediately from the expiry of the first five (5) years, the ESOS shall not in aggregate
        exceed ten (10) years from the effective date of 2 October 2018 or such longer period as may be allowed by the relevant
        authorities;

        On 20 March 2023, the Company had announced the extension of the duration of the ESOS for another 5 years from 2 October
        2023 to 1 October 2028.

(ii) As of the date of offer, an employee who fulfils the following conditions shall be eligible to participate in the ESOS:

        (a) has attained eighteen (18) years of age;
        (b) is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to any bankruptcy proceedings;
        (c) must have been confirmed in service and have served at least six (6) months in the employment of the Group and of

                 the Company;
        (d) the employee is under an employment contract, which the contract is for a duration of at least one (1) year and shall

                 have not expired within three (3) months from the date of offer; and
        (e) has fulfilled any other criteria as may be imposed by the ESOS Committee from time to time.

(iii) The exercise price shall be determined by ESOS Committee and shall be based on the five (5)-day Volume Weighted Average
        Market Price (“VWAMP”) of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of offer, with a discount, if any, the such
        discount shall not be more than ten percent (10%);

(iv) The shares issued and allocated pursuant to the exercise of the options shall, upon issuance and allotment rank pari-passu
        in all respects with the then existing shares and be entitled to all rights (including voting, dividend, allotment, distribution,
        transfer and other rights, as well as those arising on a liquidation of the Company) attaching to the then existing shares, save
        and except that new shares so issued and allocated will not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments or other forms
        of distribution which may be declared, made or paid, for which entitlement date is prior to the date allotment of such new
        shares; and

(v) The eligible employees shall be entitled to exercise such number of the vested options within the option period and they shall
        have no right to exercise all or any of the options that have been granted but not vested to them.

                                                 99
KAWAN FOOD     Kawan                     This is                                             Our Strategic
BERHAD         At A Glance               Kawan Food Berhad                                   Review

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES (CONTINUED)
The salient features of the Scheme are, inter alia, as follows: (continued)
The options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares is as follows:

                                                          Number of options over ordinary shares

Date of offer  Expiry date          At                      Granted          Exercised                     Expired                  At
                             1.1.2022                                                                                    31.12.2022
  26.7.2023      25.1.2024                                    250,000                     -                          -
   15.9.2023    31.12.2026            -                   27,960,000                      -                          -      250,000
  22.11.2023    31.12.2026            -                                                   -                          -  27,960,000
                                      -                     1,800,000                     -                          -
                                      -                   30,010,000                                                      1,800,000
                                                                                                                        30,010,000

DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The directors of the Company who held office during the financial year until the date of this report are:

Gan Thiam Chai
Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Gan Ka Bien
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Dr. Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud
Eugene Hon Kah Weng

DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES

Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of directors of the subsidiaries during the financial year and
up to the date of this report are:

Gan Thiam Chai               (resigned on 14 April 2023)
Gan Thiam Hock               (resigned on 14 April 2023)
Kwan Sok Kay
Lau Wing Hon
Jean-Marc, Michel Lhermite
Toshiro Nakazawa 		

100
Our Commitment to Good       Financial   Other                                              ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance         Statements  Information                                                           2023

                                                                     DIRECTORS’ REPORT

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

The directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and
of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings
kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 were as follows:

                                                At   Number of ordinary shares                     At
                                         1.1.2023         Acquired (Transferred)        31.12.2023

THE COMPANY

Direct interest                          91,807,548  14,725,449      (106,532,997)                   -
Gan Thiam Chai                           22,462,133               -                  -  22,462,133
Gan Thiam Hock                           19,724,405               -
Kwan Sok Kay                              7,637,028                   (19,724,405)                   -
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                  4,013,849  2,500,000                       -  10,137,028
Gan Ka Bien                                                       -
                                                                        (4,013,849)                  -

Deemed interest                          10,711,600  126,257,402     (10,711,600)       126,257,402
Gan Thiam Chai                           2,706,300       304,366                  -        3,010,666
Gan Thiam Hock                           10,711,600
Kwan Sok Kay                                         126,257,402     (10,711,600)       126,257,402

By virtue of their substantial interests in the shares of the Company, Gan Thiam Chai and Kwan Sok Kay are also deemed interested
in the shares of the subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.

                                         Number of share options over ordinary shares

                                                At   Granted         Exercised                     At
                                         1.1.2023                                       31.12.2023

THE COMPANY

Direct Interest                          -           450,000         -                  450,000
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor                   -           450,000         -                  450,000
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Eugene Hon Kah Weng                      -           450,000         -                  450,000
Gan Ka Bien
                                         -           450,000         -                  450,000

                                         -           4,800,000       -                  4,800,000

None of the other directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations.

                                                                                        101
KAWAN FOOD               Kawan        This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD                   At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad  Review

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than the
benefits shown under directors’ remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with a
director or with a firm of which a director is a member or with a company in which the director has a substantial financial interest,
other than certain directors, and the spouse of a director and children of certain directors who have significant financial interests
in companies which traded with certain companies within the Group in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 37 to
the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling directors of the Company
to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The amount of remuneration of the directors or past directors of the Company comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and the subsidiaries during the financial year are as follows:

                                                          From the           From the
                                                         Company        subsidiaries

                                                                    RM                 RM

Executive directors                                      340,000                   -
Fees                                                               -    3,285,915
Salaries and bonuses                                               -
Defined contribution benefits                                      -     425,732
Benefits-in-kind                                                   -       68,599
Incentive                                                                233,765
Meeting allowances                                         81,000
                                                         421,000                   -
                                                                         4,014,011

Non-executive directors                                  415,000                  -
Fees                                                         7,918                -
Benefits-in-kind                                                                  -
Meeting allowances                                       157,500                  -
                                                         580,418        4,014,011
                                                         1,001,418

INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS

During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the directors and the officers of
the Group and of the Company are RM20,000,000 and RM37,110 respectively.

No indemnity has been given to or insurance premium paid, during or since the end of financial year, for the auditors of the Group
and of the Company.

102
Our Commitment to Good   Financial   Other                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance     Statements  Information                                                                                          2023

                                                                                                DIRECTORS’ REPORT

SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.

AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amounts paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors are as follows:

Auditor’s remuneration:                                                                          Group            Company
- audit fees                                                                                          RM                    RM
- non-audit fees
                                                                                                271,537                56,500
                                                                                                   8,000                 8,000

                                                                                                279,537                64,500

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:

        (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
                 for doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
                 provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

        (ii) to ensure that the current assets which were unlikely to realise their values as shown in the accounting records in the
                 ordinary course of business had been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

(b) At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:

        (i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts and the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
                 financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or

        (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
                 misleading; or

        (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and
                 of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or

        (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any
                 amount stated in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements misleading.

(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:

        (i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year which
                 secures the liabilities of any other person; or

        (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.

                                                                                                                  103
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad  Review

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(d) In the opinion of the directors:

        (i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of
                 twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the Company
                 to meet their obligations as and when they fall due; and

        (ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the financial
                 year and the date of this report which is likely to substantially affect the results of the operations of the Group and of the
                 Company for the current financial year.

AUDITORS
The auditors, RSM Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:

GAN THIAM CHAI			 GAN THIAM HOCK
Selangor
18 April 2024

104
Our Commitment to Good  Financial               Other                                   ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements              Information                                                2023

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                          Note      Group     2022          Company     2022
                                                                RM                        RM
                                                2023                       2023
                                                  RM                         RM

ASSETS                                    6     195,999,221   210,392,802  -            -

Non-current assets                        7     16,886,380    17,050,791   -            -
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets                       8     7,702,092     7,847,930    -            -
Investment properties
Investments in subsidiaries               9     -             -            65,317,252   64,107,252
Investment in an associate
Investment in a joint venture             10    -             1,615,915    -            -
Other investments
Deferred tax assets                       11    2,600,000     100,000      -            -
Total non-current assets
                                          12    -             -            122,000,000  122,000,000
Current assets
Other investments                         13    464,119       464,119      -            -
Trade and other receivables
Inventories                                     223,651,812   237,471,557  187,317,252  186,107,252
Current tax assets
Prepayments                               12    9,240,224     2,799,036    -            -
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
                                          14    78,682,061    72,547,213   5,225,465    10,656,204
   investments
Total current assets                      15    36,429,562    42,033,804   -            -
TOTAL ASSETS
                                                3,106,097     4,266,268    1,527,130    2,487,900
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
                                                5,345,260     3,110,842    21,648       30,706
Equity
Share capital                             16    104,301,693   98,581,662   12,492,614   10,225,933
Treasury shares
Reserves                                        237,104,897   223,338,825  19,266,857   23,400,743
TOTAL EQUITY
                                                460,756,709   460,810,382  206,584,109  209,507,995

                                          17    184,889,706   184,889,706  184,889,706  184,889,706

                                          18    (24,244,909)  (1,345,429) (24,244,909)  (1,345,429)

                                          19    232,520,964   213,323,547  32,081,395   25,731,549

                                                393,165,761   396,867,824  192,726,192  209,275,826

                                                                                        105
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                    This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance              Kawan Food Berhad               Review

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

                               Note      Group          2022                                                      Company  2022
                                                          RM                                                                 RM
                                     2023                                                                        2023
                                       RM                                                                          RM

LIABILITIES                    13    13,005,719         12,702,708                                               -         -

Non-current liabilities              13,005,719         12,702,708                                               -         -
Deferred tax liabilities
Total non-current liabilities  20    3,560,015          6,398,772                                                -                  -
                                                                                                                           232,169
Current liabilities            21    50,833,424         44,649,288   13,857,917
Loans and borrowings                                                                                                                -
Trade and other payables             191,790            191,790                                                  -         232,169
Current tax liabilities                                                                                                    232,169
Total current liabilities            54,585,229         51,239,850   13,857,917
TOTAL LIABILITIES
                                     67,590,948         63,942,558   13,857,917
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
                                     460,756,709        460,810,382  206,584,109                                    209,507,995

                                           The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
106
Our Commitment to Good             Financial         Other                                           ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance               Statements        Information                                                        2023

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                                Group  2022           Company        2022
                                                                         RM                            RM
                                                            2023                     2023
                                                              RM                       RM

                                               Note  Restated

Revenue                                        22    287,215,315       274,761,875   18,181,788      14,811,593
Cost of sales                                                                                     -              -
Gross profit                                         (205,148,099) (191,684,230)
Other income                                                                         18,181,788      14,811,593
Selling and distribution expenses                    82,067,216        83,077,645      1,287,151      1,413,758
Administrative expenses                                                                           -
Profit from operating actvities                23    8,926,548         11,117,491                                -
Finance income                                                                       (2,401,342)     (1,446,134)
Finance costs                                        (25,177,613)      (28,892,152)  17,067,597      14,779,217
Share of loss of associate
                                                     (32,035,340)      (25,353,412)      112,935         63,306
                                                                                                  -      (7,745)
                                                     33,780,811        39,949,572                 -
                                                                                                                 -
                                               24    1,165,003         890,846

                                               25    (207,781)         (312,323)

                                                     (471,711)         (384,085)

Profit before taxation                         26    34,266,322        40,144,010    17,180,532      14,834,778
Taxation
Profit for the financial year                  27    (4,137,689)       (1,666,272)   -               -

                                                     30,128,633        38,477,738    17,180,532      14,834,778

                                                                                                     107
KAWAN FOOD          Kawan                            This is                           Our Strategic
BERHAD              At A Glance                      Kawan Food Berhad                 Review

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                                Group   2022            Company        2022
                                                                          RM                             RM
                                                            2023                       2023
                                                              RM                         RM

                                               Note  Restated

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE, NET OF TAX:

Item that may be reclassified subsequently to
   profit or loss

Foreign currency translation differences for

foreign operations                             28    (100,530)          (2,635,288)    -               -

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                           30,028,103         35,842,450     17,180,532      14,834,778
   FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR

Profit attributable to:                              30,128,633         38,498,719     17,180,532      14,834,778
Owners of the Company                                              -         (20,981)               -               -
Non-controlling interests
                                                     30,128,633         38,477,738     17,180,532      14,834,778

Total comprehensive income attributable to:          30,028,103         35,863,431     17,180,532      14,834,778
Owners of the Company                                              -         (20,981)               -               -
Non-controlling interests
                                                     30,028,103         35,842,450     17,180,532      14,834,778

                                                             2023               2022
                                                               sen                sen

EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE:

- Basic                                        29    8.35               10.70
                                                     8.35               10.70
- Diluted                                      29

108
Our Commitment to Good               Financial                           Other                                   ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance                 Statements                          Information                                                2023

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                   Attributable to owners of the Company

                                                   Non-distributable                      Distributable

                                     Share Translation         Share     Treasury         Retained                        Non-     Total
                                                              option        shares        earnings               controlling     equity
                                     capital       reserve   reserve              RM                     Total
                                                                                                   RM       RM      interests         RM
                               Note  RM            RM               RM                                                       RM

Group

Balance as at 1.1.2022               179,759,880 10,883,559  480,031     - 177,220,380 368,343,850               658,373 369,002,223

Profit for the financial year        -             -                  -  - 38,498,719 38,498,719                 (20,981) 38,477,738

Other comprehensive                  - (2,635,288)                    -  -                - (2,635,288)          - (2,635,288)
   expense for the financial
   year                              - (2,635,288)                    -  - 38,498,719 35,863,431                 (20,981) 35,842,450

Total comprehensive
   (expense)/income for the
   financial year

Contributions by and
   distributions to owners

- dividend to owners of

the Company                    30               -  -                  -  - (10,768,982) (10,768,982)             - (10,768,982)

- issuance of ordinary               5,129,826
                                                -
shares pursuant to                              -
                                                -
ESOS                           17               -  -         (386,223)   -                - 4,743,603            - 4,743,603

- share options granted              5,129,826     -         31,351      -                -              31,351  -               31,351
   under ESOS

- share options lapsed                             -         (125,159)   -                125,159        -       -               -

- share buy-back               18                  -                  - (1,345,429)       - (1,345,429)          - (1,345,429)

- changes in ownership                             -                  -  -                -              -       (637,392) (637,392)
   interest in a subsidiary

Total transactions with                            -         (480,031) (1,345,429) (10,643,823) (7,339,457) (637,392) (7,976,849)
   owners of the Company

Balance as at                        184,889,706 8,248,271            - (1,345,429) 205,075,276 396,867,824      - 396,867,824
   31.12.2022/1.1.2023

Profit for the financial year        -             -                  -  - 30,128,633 30,128,633                 - 30,128,633
                                                                                                                 - (100,530)
Other comprehensive                  - (100,530)                      -  -                - (100,530)            - 30,028,103
   expense for the financial
   year                              - (100,530)                      -  - 30,128,633 30,028,103

Total comprehensive
   (expense)/income for the
   financial year

Contributions by and
   distributions to owners

- dividend to owners of

the Company                    30    -             -                  -  - (13,021,188) (13,021,188)             - (13,021,188)

- share options granted              -             - 2,190,502           -                - 2,190,502            - 2,190,502
   under ESOS

- share buy-back               18    -             -                  - (22,899,480)      - (22,899,480)         - (22,899,480)

Total transactions with              -             - 2,190,502 (22,899,480) (13,021,188) (33,730,166)            - (33,730,166)
   owners of the Company

Balance as at 31.12.2023             184,889,706 8,147,741 2,190,502 (24,244,909) 222,182,721 393,165,761        - 393,165,761

                                                                                                                                 109
KAWAN FOOD                Kawan                               This is                                Our Strategic
BERHAD                    At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad                      Review

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                                    Non-                             Distributable
                                                              distributable
                                    Note    Share                                 Treasury           Retained       Total
                                           capital                        Share      shares          earnings          RM
                                                                         option            RM
                                                 RM                    reserve                                RM

                                                                              RM

Company

Balance as at 1.1.2022                     179,759,880        480,031             -                  21,665,753     201,905,664
                                                          -            -
Profit and total comprehensive                                                    -                  14,834,778     14,834,778
   income for the financial year

Contributions by and distributions
   to owners

- dividend to owners of the

Company                                30                  -             -        -                  (10,768,982)   (10,768,982)
                                                5,129,826
- issuance of ordinary shares                                 (386,223)
                                                           -
pursuant to ESOS                       17                  -      31,351          -                  -              4,743,603
                                                           -   (125,159)
- share options granted under                  5,129,826                                       -     -              31,351
   ESOS                                    184,889,706                   -                     -
                                                                                  (1,345,429)
- share options lapsed                                     -  (480,031)                              -              (125,159)
                                                                         -
- share buy-back                       18                                                            -              (1,345,429)

Total transactions with owners of                                                  (1,345,429)       (10,768,982)   (7,464,616)
   the Company                                                                    (1,345,429)

Balance as at 31.12.2022/1.1.2023                                                                    25,731,549     209,275,826

Profit and total comprehensive                                -                   -                  17,180,532     17,180,532
   income for the financial year

Contributions by and distributions
   to owners

- dividend to owners of the

Company                                30                  -  -                   -                  (13,021,188)   (13,021,188)
                                                           -
- share options granted under                              -  2,190,502                           -  -              2,190,502
   ESOS                                                    -              -       (22,899,480)
                                           184,889,706
- share buy-back                       18                                                            -              (22,899,480)

Total transactions with owners of                             2,190,502           (22,899,480)       (13,021,188)   (33,730,166)
   the Company                                                2,190,502           (24,244,909)       29,890,893     192,726,192

Balance as at 31.12.2023

110
Our Commitment to Good                 Financial           Other                                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance                   Statements          Information                                                            2023

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                     Note      Group         2022              Company         2022
                                                                               RM                                RM
                                                           2023                               2023
                                                             RM                                 RM

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Profit before taxation                                     34,266,322        40,144,010       17,180,532       14,834,778

Adjustments for:

Bad debts written off                                                    -      187,249                     -               -
                                                               145,838          145,839                     -               -
Depreciation of investment properties                8     19,162,255        18,749,314                     -               -
                                                               338,613          340,513                     -               -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment        6        905,647                                       -               -
                                                                                  18,494      (18,181,788)     (14,811,593)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                  7                   -               -      2,190,502                   -
                                                            2,190,502                             (112,935)       (63,606)
Property, plant and equipment written off            26    (1,165,003)            31,350                    -               -
                                                                             (890,846)                      -               -
Dividends income                                     22        267,593        1,065,377                     -               -
                                                              (174,798)
Employee share scheme expenses                       26     5,073,310           (74,206)                    -               -
                                                                               243,884                      -               -
Finance income from money market funds               24    (2,963,925)                                      -               -
                                                           2,404,240           (109,167)                    -               -
Impairment loss on trade receivables                 26                        435,645                      -               -
                                                               207,781                                      -               -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables     26       (34,496)          168,681       (1,273,656)       (1,413,758)
                                                              544,203          (43,493)                     -               -
Provision for slow moving inventories                15        558,812
                                                            (1,178,362)                  -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer                                  95,279
                                                                471,711       (725,768)
required                                             15                        384,085

Inventories written off                              15

Finance costs                                        25

Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 26

Loss from disposal of an associate

Fair value loss on financial assets                  26

Unrealised gain on foreign exchange                  26

Share of loss in an associate

Operating profit/(loss) before working capital              61,020,243       60,166,240          (197,345)      (1,454,179)
   changes                                                    1,090,617      (9,871,946)                    -               -

Decrease/(Increase) in inventories                          (8,514,758)      (16,675,561)     10,600,395       (2,673,687)
(Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables,          7,002,203         5,346,781      13,625,752           (140,812)
                                                           60,598,305                         24,028,802
   prepayments and other financial assets                                    38,965,514        13,021,188      (4,268,678)
Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other payables                           -                -                   10,785,593
                                                            (3,199,936)                          (116,050)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations                                     (2,953,549)         1,076,819       (403,867)
                                                              1,638,571             3,080     38,010,759                    -
Dividends received                                         59,036,940
Income tax paid                                                              36,015,045                          6,113,048
Income tax refunded

Net cash generated from operating activities

                                                                                                               111
KAWAN FOOD      Kawan                                This is                             Our Strategic
BERHAD          At A Glance                          Kawan Food Berhad                   Review

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                               Note      Group          2022              Company           2022
                                                                          RM                                  RM
                                                     2023                                2023
                                                       RM                                  RM

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Investment in an associate                                          -   (2,000,000)               -                    -
Investment in a joint venture                        (2,500,000)           (100,000)              -                    -
Increase stake in a subsidiary                                             (637,392)              -         (637,392)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and                       -
                                                                             59,000               -                    -
   equipment                                               611,928                    -          -                     -
Proceeds from disposal of an associate                   600,000                                 -                     -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment             (5,824,333)        (9,677,916)     112,935              63,606
Finance income received from money market funds 24      1,165,003          890,846               -                     -
Placement in other investments                       (7,000,000)                      -
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing                                              112,935            (573,786)
                                                     (12,947,402)       (11,465,462)
   activities

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Dividends paid to owners of the Company        30    (13,021,188)       (10,768,982)     (13,021,188)       (10,768,982)
                                                        (207,781)           (168,681)                  -                  -
Finance costs on loans and borrowings          25

Proceeds from Employees’ share option scheme         -                  1                -                  -
   granted to subsidiaries

Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares                            -   4,743,603                       -   4,743,603
   pursuant to Employees' share option scheme          (2,838,757)       (5,719,789)                     -               -
                                                     (22,899,480)        (1,345,429)     (22,899,480)
Repayment of loans and borrowings                    (38,967,206)       (13,259,277)     (35,920,668)       (1,345,429)
                                                                                                            (7,370,808)
Share buy-back                                 18

Net cash used in financing activities

NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH                 7,122,332        11,290,306      2,203,026          (1,831,546)
   EQUIVALENTS                                         (1,402,301)       (1,309,229)          63,655             70,658
                                                      98,581,662        88,600,585
Effect of foreign exchange differences               104,301,693         98,581,662      10,225,933          11,986,821
                                                                                         12,492,614         10,225,933
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BROUGHT FORWARD

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CARRIED FORWARD 16

112
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                      Other                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                     Information                                      2023

                                                                         STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                     FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

                                                 Note      Group     2022          Company  2022
                                                                       RM         2023        RM
                                                       2023
                                                         RM                         RM           -

At 1 January                                           6,398,772     12,118,561        -
Cash flows:
Interest paid                                             (207,781)    (168,681)  -         -
Repayments of borrowings                               (2,838,757)   (5,719,789)
                                                                                  -         -
Non-cash changes:
Interest charged during the financial year                207,781       168,681   -         -
At 31 December                                         3,560,015     6,398,772
                                                                                  -         -
Cash outflows for leases as lessee
Included in net cash from operating activities:        1,021,839     272,713      -         -
Payment relating to short-term leases                  1,021,839     272,713
Total cash outflows for leases                                                    -         -

                                                                                            113
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

1. PRINCIPAL ACITIVITIES

        The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities, whilst the principal activities of its subsidiaries are as
        stated in Note 9 to the financial statements.

        There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial
        Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”) issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”), International Financial
        Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION

        (a) Basis of accounting

                 The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention.

                 The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
                 reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In
                 addition, the directors are also required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
                 The areas involving such judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 5. Although these estimates
                 and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results could differ from
                 those estimates.

        (b) Basis of consolidation

                 (i) Subsidiaries

                         Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the
                         consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.

                         The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity
                         and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered
                         when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over
                         an investee when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities
                         of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.

                         Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investment
                         includes transaction costs.

                         The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by
                         the Group.

114
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (b) Basis of consolidation (continued)

                 (ii) Associate

                         Associate is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating policy
                         decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

                         Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-
                         acquisition change in the investor’s share of comprehensive income of the associate. On acquisition of the
                         investment, the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at fair value. Any excess of the cost
                         of the investment over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities
                         is recorded as goodwill and included in the carrying amount of the investment. Goodwill is tested for impairment
                         together with the investment at the end of each reporting period when there is objective evidence that the
                         investment is impaired. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities
                         over the cost of acquisition is recognised in consolidated profit or loss.

                         The Group’s share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss, and its share
                         of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
                         The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.

                         Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.

                         If the Group’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not
                         provide for additional losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.

                         Profits or losses on Group transactions with associate is eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
                         relevant associate.

                         When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
                         associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
                         as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained interest
                         plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
                         method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.

                         When the Group’s interest in associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant influence, any retained
                         interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any
                         gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the
                         profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related
                         assets or liabilities.

                         Investment in associate is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any impairment
                         losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments includes
                         transaction costs.

                                                 115
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (b) Basis of consolidation (continued)

                 (iii) Business combinations

                         Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition date, which is the
                         date on which control is transferred to the Group.

                         For new acquisitions, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:

                         (a) the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
                         (b) the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
                         (c) if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree;

                                  less
                         (d) the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.

                         When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

                         For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests in the acquiree
                         either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.

                         Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in
                         connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.

                 (iv) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests

                         The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
                         as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders. Any difference between the
                         Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or
                         against Group reserves.

                 (v) Loss of control

                         Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the former subsidiary,
                         any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the former subsidiary from the
                         consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in
                         profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
                         at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as equity accounted investee or as a financial
                         asset at FVPL depending on the level of influence retained.

                 (vi) Joint arrangements

                         A joint arrangement (i.e. either a joint operation or a joint venture, depending on the rights and obligations of the
                         jointly controlling parties to the arrangement), is one in which the Group is party to an arrangement of which two
                         or more parties have joint control, which is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the arrangement; it exists
                         only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.

                         Jointly controlled entities are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method less
                         any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution (or included in a disposal group that is
                         classified as held for sale or distribution). The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the
                         profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity-accounted joint ventures, after adjustments, if any, to
                         align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that joint control ceases.

116
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (b) Basis of consolidation (continued)

                 (vi) Joint arrangements (continued)

                         When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, the carrying amount
                         of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition of further losses is
                         discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the joint
                         venture.

                         Joint venture is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating policy
                         decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of
                         accounting.

                         Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
                         includes transaction costs.

                 (vii) Non-controlling interests

                         Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not attributable directly
                         or indirectly to the owners of the Company, are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position and
                         statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
                         Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group are presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss
                         and other comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for the year
                         between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.

                         Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests
                         even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.

                 (viii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                         Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
                         transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

                         Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent
                         of the Group’s interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but
                         only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.

        (c) Foreign currency

                 (i) Foreign currency transaction

                         Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at
                         exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.

                         Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are retranslated
                         to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.

                         Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of the
                         reporting period, except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at
                         the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.

                                                                                                                                                                          117
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (c) Foreign currency (continued)

                 (i) Foreign currency transaction (continued)

                         Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising
                         on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
                         income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive
                         income.

                         In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a
                         foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and
                         losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation
                         and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation reserve
                         (“FCTR”) in equity.

                 (ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)

                         The assets and liabilities of operations in functional currencies other than RM, including goodwill and fair value
                         adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period,
                         except for goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the
                         date when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the Group and of the
                         Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of
                         the transactions.

                         Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the FCTR in
                         equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the
                         translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of such
                         that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign
                         operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.

                         When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant
                         proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only
                         part of its investment in a joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining joint control, the relevant
                         proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.

        (d) Financial instruments

                 (i) Initial recognition and measurement

                         The Group and the Company recognise a financial asset or a financial liability (including derivative instruments)
                         in the statement of financial position when, and only when, an entity in the Group and the Company become a
                         party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.

                         On initial recognition, all financial assets (including intra-group loans and advances) and financial liabilities
                         (including intra-group payables) are measured at fair value plus transaction costs if the financial asset or financial
                         liability is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. For instruments measured at fair value through profit or
                         loss, transaction costs are expensed to profit or loss when incurred.

118
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (d) Financial instruments (continued)

                 (ii) Financial assets

                         For the purpose of subsequent measurement, the Group or the Company classify financial assets into two
                         measurement categories, namely: (i) financial assets at amortised cost (“AC”) and (ii) financial assets at fair
                         value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The classification is based on the Group’s and the Company’s business
                         model objective for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial
                         instruments.

                         After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure financial assets, as follows:

                         (i) Financial assets at AC

                                  A financial asset is measured at AC if: (a) it is held within the Group’s and the Company’s business objective
                                  to hold the asset only to collect contractual cash flows, and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset
                                  give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest in principal
                                  outstanding.

                         (ii) Financial assets at FVPL

                                  A financial asset is measured at FVPL if it is an equity investment, held for trading (including derivative
                                  assets) or if it does not meet any of the condition specified for the AC model.

                         Other than financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, all other financial assets are subject to
                         review for impairment in accordance with Note 3(k)(i).

                 (iii) Financial liabilities

                         After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure all financial liabilities at amortised cost using the
                         effective interest method, except for:

                         Financial guarantee contracts is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the
                         holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the
                         original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value.
                         Subsequently, they are measured at higher of: (a) the amount of the loss allowance; and (b) the amount initially
                         recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative of income recognised in accordance with the principles in
                         MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

                                                 119
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (d) Financial instruments (continued)

                 (iv) Derecognition of financial instruments

                         For derecognition purposes, the Group and the Company first determine whether a financial asset or a financial
                         liability should be derecognised in its entirety as a single item or derecognised part-by-part of a single item or of a
                         group of similar items.

                         A financial asset, whether as a single item or as a part, is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to
                         receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or when the Group and the Company transfer the contractual
                         rights to receive cash flows of the financial asset, including circumstances when the Group and the Company act
                         only as a collecting agent of the transferee, and retain no significant risks and rewards of ownership of the financial
                         asset or no continuing involvement in the control of the financial asset transferred.

                         A financial liability is derecognised when, and only when, it is legally extinguished, which is either when the obligation
                         specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. A substantial modification of the terms of an existing
                         financial liability is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new
                         financial liability. For this purpose, the Group and the Company consider a modification as substantial if the present
                         value of the revised cash flows of the modified terms discounted at the original effective interest rate is different by
                         10% or more when compared with the carrying amount of the original liability.

                 (v) Fair value measurement

                         The fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability is determined by reference to the quoted market price in an
                         active market, and in the absence of an observable market price, by a valuation technique as described in Note 3(v).

                 (vi) Recognition of gains and losses

                         Fair value changes of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss are
                         recognised in profit or loss when they arise.

                         For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense are
                         recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. A gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss only when
                         the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process of the
                         instrument.

                 (vii) Equity investments

                         The Group measures all equity investments at fair value. For equity investments at FVPL, changes in fair value are
                         recognised in profit or loss. Where the Group has elected to present the changes in fair value in other comprehensive
                         income, the amounts presented are not subsequently transferred to profit or loss when the equity investments are
                         derecognised. The cumulative gains or losses is transferred to retained profits instead. The election is made on
                         an instrument-by-instrument basis and it is irrevocable. The amount presented in other comprehensive income
                         includes the related foreign exchange gains or losses.

                         Dividend income from equity investments at FVPL and fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”) is
                         recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Group's right to receive payment has been established.

                         Changes in the fair value of equity investments at FVPL are recognised in other income or expenses, as applicable, in
                         the profit or loss. Impairment losses or reversal of impairment losses on equity instruments measured at FVOCI are
                         recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.

120
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (e) Property, plant and equipment

                 (i) Recognition and measurement

                         Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
                         accumulated impairment losses.

                         Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any other costs
                         directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling
                         and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets
                         also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in
                         accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. Costs also may include transfers from equity of any
                         gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.

                         Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that
                         equipment.

                         When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted
                         for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

                         The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the proceeds
                         from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net within “other
                         income” and “administrative expenses” respectively in profit or loss.

                 (ii) Subsequent cost

                         The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
                         amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will flow to
                         the Group, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is derecognised
                         to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or
                         loss as incurred.

                 (iii) Depreciation

                         Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual assets
                         are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset, then that
                         component is depreciated separately.

                         Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
                         component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use. Leased
                         assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that
                         the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Leasehold land is amortised over the remaining lease
                         periods ranging from 65 to 81 years.

                                                 121
KAWAN FOOD       Kawan                                This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD           At A Glance                          Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
        (e) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
                 (iii) Depreciation (continued)
                         The estimated useful lives of other property, plant and equipment for the current and previous years are as follows:

            Buildings                                                                                       40 to 50 years
            Apartments                                                                                              50 years
            Motor vehicles
            Furniture, fittings and office equipment                                                          5 to 10 years
            Plant and machinery                                                                               3 to 10 years
            Prepaid lease asset
            Renovation                                                                                               10 years
            Signage                                                                                                 33 years
                                                                                                                     10 years
                                                                                                                     10 years

            Capital work in progress is not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.

            Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period, and
            adjusted as appropriate.

     (f) Leases

     (i) Definition of a lease

            A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an identified asset for a period
            of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an
            identified asset, the Group assesses whether:

            • the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should
                    be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier
                    has a substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified;

            • the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout
                    the period of use; and

            • the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the decision-
                    making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases
                    where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the Group has
                    the right to direct the use of the asset if either the Group has the right to operate the asset; or the Group
                    designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.

            At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group allocates the
            consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on the basis of their relative stand-alone
            prices. However, for leases of properties in which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate non-lease
            components and will instead account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.

122
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (f) Leases (continued)

                 (ii) Recognition and initial measurement

                         (a) As a lessee

                                  The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
                                  of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
                                  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and
                                  an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the
                                  site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

                                  The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
                                  commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily
                                  determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
                                  incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.

                                  Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:

                                  • fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentive receivable;
                                  • variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate

                                          at the commencement date;
                                  • amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
                                  • the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise; and
                                  • penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early.

                                  The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of the underlying
                                  asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which
                                  the performance or use occurs.

                                  The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
                                  have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease
                                  payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

                         (b) As a lessor

                                  When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or
                                  an operating lease.

                                  To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers substantially
                                  all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease
                                  is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.

                                  If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15 to allocate the
                                  consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.

                                                 123
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (f) Leases (continued)

                 (iii) Subsequent measurement

                         (a) As a lessee

                                  The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
                                  date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
                                  estimated useful lives of right-of-use asset are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant
                                  and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and
                                  adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.

                                  The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
                                  there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of
                                  in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected
                                  to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will
                                  exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.

                                  When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the
                                  right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been
                                  reduced to zero.

                         (b) As a lessor

                                  The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on straight-line basis
                                  over the lease term as part of “other income”.

        (g) Goodwill

                 Goodwill arises on business combinations is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. In respect of
                 joint venture, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment and an impairment
                 loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of
                 the joint venture.

                 Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that it may be
                 impaired.

        (h) Investment properties

                 (i) Investment properties carried at cost

                         Investment properties are properties which are owned to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for
                         both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or
                         for administrative purposes. These include freehold land and leasehold land which in substance is a lease held
                         for a currently undetermined future use. Properties that are occupied by the Group are accounted for as owner-
                         occupied rather than as investment properties. Investment properties are measured at cost are accounted for
                         similarly to property, plant and equipment.

124
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (h) Investment properties (continued)

                 (i) Investment properties carried at cost (continued)

                         Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment properties. The cost of
                         self-constructed investment properties includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly
                         attributable to bringing the investment properties to a working condition for their intended use and capitalised
                         borrowing costs. Right-of-use asset held under a lease contract that meets the definition of investment property
                         is initially measured similarly as other right-of-use assets.

                         An investment property is derecognised on disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future
                         economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
                         carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.

                         Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 50 years for
                         buildings and over the remaining lease periods of 84 years for leasehold land. Freehold land is not depreciated.

                 (ii) Determination of fair value

                         The directors estimate the fair values of the Group’s investment properties without the involvement of independent
                         valuers.

                         The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged
                         on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction after proper
                         marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably.

        (i) Inventories

                 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

                 The cost of inventories is measured based on the weighted average cost method, and includes expenditure incurred
                 in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing
                 location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads
                 based on normal operating capacity.

                 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
                 completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

        (j) Cash and cash equivalents

                 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid
                 investments that are readily convertible to known amount of cash with insignificant risk of changes in fair value.

                                                 125
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (k) Impairment

                 (i) Financial assets

                         The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets measured
                         at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                         The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses,
                         except for cash and bank balance. Loss allowances for trade receivables is always measured at an amount equal
                         to lifetime expected credit loss.

                         When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition
                         and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable
                         information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and
                         qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
                         and including forward-looking information, where available.

                         Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
                         expected life of the asset, while 12 months expected losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from
                         default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
                         estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group and the Company are
                         exposed to credit risk.

                         The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision matrix
                         with reference to historical credit loss experiences.

                         An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss and
                         the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account.

                         At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised cost are
                         credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on
                         the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

                         The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there is
                         no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the Company determine that
                         the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generated sufficient cash flows to repay the
                         amounts subject to write-off. However, financial assets that are written-off could still be subject to enforcement
                         activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery amounts due.

                 (ii) Other assets

                         The carrying amount of the other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets) are reviewed at the end
                         of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists,
                         then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful
                         lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each period at the same time.

                         For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
                         generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or
                         cash generating units. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is
                         allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

126
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (k) Impairment (continued)

                 (ii) Other assets (continued)

                         The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value
                         less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
                         using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
                         specific to the asset or the cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses
                         are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units (groups of
                         cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the cash-generating unit
                         (groups of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.

                         An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised
                         in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications that the loss has decreased
                         or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine
                         the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the
                         extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined,
                         net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses
                         are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.

        (l) Equity instruments

                 Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured subsequently.

                 (i) Issue expenses

                         Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised as a deduction from
                         equity.

                 (ii) Ordinary shares

                         Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

                 (iii) Dividend distribution

                         Dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are declared (i.e. the dividends are appropriately authorised and
                         no longer at the discretion of the entity). Typically, dividends are recognised as liabilities in the period in which
                         their distribution is approved at the Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised when
                         paid.

                 (iv) Treasury shares

                         The cost of treasury shares purchased is shown as a deduction from equity in the statement of financial position.
                         When treasury shares are sold or reissued, they are credited to equity. As a result, no gain or loss on treasury
                         shares is included in profit or loss.

                                                 127
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (m) Employee benefits

                 (i) Short-term employee benefits

                         Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and sick leave
                         are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.

                         A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if
                         the Group and the Company have a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past
                         service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

                 (ii) State plans

                         The Group’s contributions to the statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial year to which
                         they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.

        (n) Share-based payments

                 Share-based payments of the Group and of the Company are equity-settled share options granted to employees, for
                 which an option pricing model is used to estimate the fair value at grant date. That fair value is charged on a straight-
                 line basis as an expense in the profit or loss over the period that the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the
                 options (vesting period), with a corresponding increase in equity.

                 The number of such options is adjusted annually to reflect best estimates of those expected to vest (ignoring purely
                 market-based conditions) with consequent changes to the expense. Equity is also increased by the proceeds receivable,
                 as and when employees choose to exercise their options.

                 If the Group and the Company modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, as a
                 minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted (unless those
                 equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition other than a market condition) are
                 charged to the profit or loss.

                 Cancellations of grants of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by forfeiture when
                 the vesting conditions are not satisfied) are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting, therefore the unrecognised
                 remaining amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

        (o) Provisions

                 A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can
                 be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
                 Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
                 assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised
                 as finance cost.

128
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (p) Revenue and other income

                 (i) Revenue

                         Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
                         transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
                         recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred
                         when (or as) the customer obtains control of the assets.

                         The Group transfers control of goods or services at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria is
                         met:

                         (a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
                         (b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or

                                  enhanced; or
                         (c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable

                                  right to payment for performance completed to date.

                 (ii) Dividend income

                         Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is
                         established.

                 (iii) Rental income

                         Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the
                         lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the
                         lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other income.

                 (iv) Finance income

                         Finance income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss except for finance
                         income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically for the purpose of obtaining a
                         qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with accounting policy on borrowing costs.

        (q) Borrowing costs

                 Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
                 recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.

                 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets
                 that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of
                 the cost of those assets.

                 The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure for the
                 asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for its
                 intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the
                 activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

                 Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying
                 assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

                                                                                                                                                                         129
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (r) Income tax

                 Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss
                 except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive
                 income.

                 Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted
                 or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous
                 financial years.

                 Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts
                 of assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax is not recognised for
                 the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a
                 transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred
                 tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based
                 on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

                 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets,
                 and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities,
                 but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised
                 simultaneously.

                 A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against
                 which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period
                 and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.

        (s) Earnings per ordinary share

                 The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).

                 Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average
                 number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, and adjusted for own shares held.

                 The dilutive earnings per share of the Group has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity
                 holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been issued upon full
                 exercise of the remaining share options and convertible notes, adjusted by the number of such shares that would have
                 been issued at fair value.

        (t) Operating segments

                 An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn
                 revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other
                 components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker,
                 which in this case is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the
                 segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.

        (u) Contingent liabilities

                 Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be estimated
                 reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is disclosed as a contingent liability,
                 unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations, whose existence will only be
                 confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities
                 unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.

130
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (v) Fair value measurements

                 Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would be received to
                 sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
                 date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
                 principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.

                 For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
                 economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would
                 use the asset in its highest and best use.

                 When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable market data as
                 far as possible. Fair value are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
                 valuation technique as follows:

                 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group and the
                               Company can access at the measurement date.

                 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
                               directly or indirectly.

                 Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

                 The Group and the Company recognise transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
                 or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.

4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS

        4.1 New MFRS and amendments to MFRSs adopted

                 For the preparation of the financial statements, the following new MFRS and amendments to the MFRSs issued by the
                 MASB are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2023:

                 • MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
                 • Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
                 • Amendment to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts – Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 Financial Instruments –

                         Comparative Information
                 • Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure of Accounting Policies
                 • Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – Definition of

                         Accounting Estimates
                 • Amendments to MFRS 112 Income Taxes – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single

                         Transaction and International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules

                 The amendments to MFRS 101 - Presentation of Financial Statements and MFRS Practice Statement 2 – Disclosure of
                 Accounting Policies require the disclosure of ‘material’, rather than ‘significant’, accounting policies. Accounting policy
                 information is material if, when considered together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements,
                 it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general-purpose financial statements
                 make on the basis of those financial statements. The amendments also clarified that accounting policy information
                 may be material because of the nature of the related transactions, other events or conditions, even if the amounts are
                 immaterial. However, not all accounting policy information relating to material transactions, other events or conditions
                 is itself material.

                                                                                                                                                                          131
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED)

        4.1 New MFRS and amendments to MFRSs adopted (continued)

                 The amendments did not result in any changes to the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. The previous
                 term, “significant accounting policies” used throughout the financial statements has been replaced with “material
                 accounting policy information”.

                 The Group has adopted the amendments to MFRS 112 - Income Taxes – International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model
                 Rules upon their release on 2 June 2023. The amendments provide a temporary mandatory relief from deferred tax
                 accounting for the top-up tax which is applied retrospectively. Since the newly enacted tax legislation in Malaysia will
                 only come into effect in year 2025, there is no current tax impact for the current year ended 31 December 2023. The
                 Group is in the process of assessing its exposure to the Pillar Two legislation for when it comes into effect.

                 The adoption of the above-mentioned new MFRS and other amendments to MFRSs has no significant impact on the
                 financial statements of the Group and the Company.

        4.2 Amendments to MFRSs not yet effective

                 The following are amendments to the MFRSs that have been issued by the MASB up to the date of the issuance of the
                 Group’s and the Company’s financial statements but have not been adopted by the Group and the Company:

                 Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024

                 • Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
                 • Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements – Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-

                         current and Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
                 • Amendments to MFRS 107 Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Supplier

                         Finance Arrangements

                 Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025

                 • Amendments to MFRS 121 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lack of Exchangeability

                 Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed

                 • Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investment in Associates and Joint
                         Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

                 The directors anticipate that the above-mentioned amendments will be adopted by the Group and the Company when
                 they become effective.

                 The initial application of amendments to MFRSs is not expected to have any significant impact on the financial
                 statements of the Group and of the Company.

132
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

        In preparing its financial statements, the Group and the Company have made significant judgements, estimates and
        assumptions that impact on the carrying value of certain assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as other information
        reported in the notes. The Group and the Company periodically monitor such estimates and assumptions and makes sure
        they incorporate all relevant information available at the date when financial statements are prepared. However, this does
        not prevent actual figures differing from estimates.

        The judgements made in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies that have the most
        significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and the estimates and assumptions that have a
        significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year
        are addressed below.

        (a) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties

                 The cost of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties are depreciated on a straight-
                 line basis over their estimated economic useful lives. The directors estimate the useful lives of these property, plant and
                 equipment, right-of-use assets and investment properties to be within 3 to 84 years. Changes in the expected level of
                 usage and technological developments could impact the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets,
                 therefore future depreciation charges could be revised. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, right-
                 of-use assets and investment properties are disclosed in Note 6, Note 7 and Note 8 respectively.

        (b) Impairment of non-financial assets

                 The Group and the Company assess whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each
                 reporting date. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that the carrying amount may
                 not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its
                 recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.

                 The carrying amount of the non-financial assets are disclosed in Notes 6 to 11 respectively.

        (c) Loss allowances of financial assets

                 The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial
                 asset is impaired. To determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment, the Group and the Company consider
                 factors such as the probability of insolvency, significant financial difficulties of the receivables, default or significant
                 delay in payments, current economic trends and forward-looking information that is available.

                 Where there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount and timing of future cash flows are estimated based on
                 historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.

        (d) Tax

                 Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future
                 taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity
                 of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future
                 changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax provisions already recorded. The Group
                 establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the
                 respective countries in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience
                 of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the relevant tax authority.
                 Such differences of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the
                 respective Group’s domicile.

                                                                                                                                                                         133
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS (CONTINUED)

        (d) Tax (continued)

                 The carrying amount of current tax assets at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company is RM3,106,097 (2022:
                 RM4,266,268) and RM1,527,130 (2022: RM2,487,900) respectively.

                 The carrying amount of current tax liabilities at 31 December 2023 of the Group is RM191,790 (2022: RM191,790).

                 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 13.

                 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be
                 available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the
                 amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits
                 together with future tax planning strategies.

        (e) Net realisable value of inventories

                 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is written down to their
                 estimated realisable value when their cost may no longer be recoverable such as when inventories are damaged
                 or become wholly or partly obsolete or their selling prices have declined. In any case, the realisable value represents
                 the best estimate of the recoverable amount, is based on the most reliable evidence available at the reporting date
                 and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected realisable value. The benchmarks for determining the
                 amount of write-downs to net realisable value include ageing analysis, technical assessment and subsequent events.
                 In general, such an evaluation process requires significant judgement and may materially affect the carrying amount
                 of inventories at the reporting date (as reflected in Note 15).

        (f) Share-based payments

                 Share-based payments are measured at grant date fair value. For share options granted to employees, in many cases
                 market prices are not available and therefore the fair value of the options granted shall be estimated by applying an
                 option pricing model. Option pricing models need input data such as expected volatility of the share price, expected
                 dividends or the risk-free interest rate for the life of the option. The overall objective is to approximate the expectations
                 that would be reflected in a current market or negotiated exchange price for the option. Such assumptions are subject
                 to judgements and may turn out to be significantly different than expected.

                 Fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis
                 over the vesting period, based on the Group’s and the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually
                 vest. The estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest is revised by the Group and the Company at
                 the end of each reporting period through settlement. Revisions of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or
                 loss so that the cumulative expense includes the revised estimate, with the corresponding adjustment to the reserve for
                 employee equity-settled benefits.

134
Our Commitment to Good         Financial                               Other                                 ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance           Statements                              Information                                              2023

                                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                        AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                              Motor      Furniture,    Plant and                               Capital
                                           vehicles          fittings                                          work in
                  Buildings Apartments                                 machinery Renovations     Signage     progress     Total
                                                   RM   and office                                       RM                  RM
                        RM     RM                      equipment       RM           RM                                RM

                                                                   RM

Group

Cost

At 1 January 2022 121,575,281  515,912     5,593,061   14,744,831 162,729,730     8,588,466      287,029     4,447,525 318,481,835
                                       -     746,419                                          -           -
Additions               -              -    (145,923)  515,720         3,121,455              -           -  5,294,322 9,677,916
                                       -    (158,501)                                         -           -
Disposals               -                              -               (18,000)                              -            (163,923)

Written off             -                              -               -                                     -            (158,501)

Effect of         (838,584)       -        (49,926) (383,622) (598,416)             -            -           (3,908) (1,874,456)
   movements
   in exchange
   rates

Reclassification  107,779         -        -           8,119 5,357,204              -            - (5,473,102)            -

Transfer from

right-of-use

assets                  -         -        -           604,876         -            -            -           -            604,876

At 31 December                 515,912     5,985,130 15,489,924 170,591,973 8,588,466            287,029     4,264,837 326,567,747
   2022/ 1                              -                                                                 -    577,428 5,824,333
   January 2023 120,844,476             -                                                                 -   (577,428) (749,873)
                                        -                                                                 -   (628,143) (905,647)
Additions               -                  1,010,822   517,958 3,718,125            -

Disposals               -                  (162,095)   (10,350)        -            -

Written off             -                  -           - (277,504)                  -

Effect of         504,024         -        26,429      355,141         237,997      -            -           -            1,123,591
   movements                                                                                                                        -
   in exchange
   rates

Reclassification        -         -        -           53,255 3,164,373             -            - (3,217,628)

At 31 December

2023              121,348,500  515,912 6,860,286 16,405,928 177,434,964 8,588,466                287,029     419,066 331,860,151

                                                                                                                          135
KAWAN FOOD              Kawan                               This is                                        Our Strategic
BERHAD                  At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad                              Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

                        Buildings Apartments      Motor       Furniture,     Plant and     Renovations     Signage       Capital   Total
                                               vehicles           fittings  machinery                  RM          RM    work in      RM
                        RM           RM                                                                                progress
                                                      RM     and office                RM
                                                            equipment                                                          RM

                                                                        RM

     Group

     Accumulated
        depreciation

     At 1 January 2022 12,356,848    178,131   2,811,809    7,367,821 69,272,240 5,817,570                   115,180      - 97,919,599
                                                                                                             24,723
     Charge for the     2,420,574    10,741    1,086,338    1,636,259       13,198,673     372,006                        - 18,749,314
        financial year                     -     (130,417)             -       (17,999)             -               -
                                           -    (140,007)              -                -           -               -
     Disposals          -                                                                                                 -        (148,416)
                                                                                                                    -
     Written off        -                                                                                                 -        (140,007)
                                                                                                                    -
     Effect of          (159,567)    -         (37,069)     (41,322) (556,757)             -                              -        (794,715)
        movements                                                                                          139,903
        in exchange                                                                                         24,723
        rates                                                                                                       -

     Transfer from                                                                                                  -

     right-of-use                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                           164,626
     assets             -            -         -            116,804         -              -                              -        116,804

     At 31 December     14,617,855   188,872 3,590,654 9,079,562 81,896,157 6,189,576                                     - 115,702,579
        2022/ 1
        January 2023

     Charge for the     2,423,004    10,741    1,080,773    1,701,563 13,553,211           368,240                        - 19,162,255
        financial year                      -   (162,092)                                            -

     Disposals          -                                   (10,349)        -                                             -        (172,441)

     Effect of          126,881      -         22,592       34,975          382,135        -                              -        566,583
        movements
        in exchange
        rates

     Transfer from

     right-of-use

     assets             -            -         -            119,339         -              -                              -        119,339

     At 31 December     17,167,740   199,613 4,531,927 10,925,090 95,831,503 6,557,816                                    - 135,378,315
        2023

136
Our Commitment to Good          Financial                           Other                                      ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance            Statements                          Information                                                   2023

                                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

                   Buildings Apartments     Motor     Furniture,     Plant and     Renovations     Signage       Capital   Total
                                         vehicles         fittings  machinery                  RM          RM    work in      RM
                        RM      RM                                                                             progress
                                                RM   and office                RM
                                                    equipment                                                          RM

                                                                RM

Group

Accumulated
   impairment
   loss

At 1 January 2022       -       -           -       -               489,498        -               -           -           489,498

Effect of               -       -           -       -               (17,132)       -               -           -           (17,132)
   movements
   in exchange
   rates

At 31 December

2022/ 1

January 2023            -       -           -       - 472,366                      -               -           - 472,366

Effect of               -       -           -       -               10,249         -               -           -           10,249
   movements
   in exchange
   rates

At 31 December          -       -           -       - 482,615                      -               -           - 482,615
   2023

Carrying
   amounts

At 31 December     106,226,621  327,040 2,394,476 6,410,362 88,223,450 2,398,890                   147,126 4,264,837 210,392,802
   2022

At 31 December

2023               104,180,760  316,299 2,328,359 5,480,838 81,120,846 2,030,650                   122,403     419,066 195,999,221

(a) Apartments

       The strata title for apartments with net carrying amount of RM147,586 (2022: RM152,575) have yet to be issued to a
       subsidiary.

(b) Security

       Buildings with net carrying amount of RM18,054,702 (2022: RM18,132,690) have been charge to licensed banks for banking
       facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).

                                                                                                                           137
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                               This is                            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad                  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

                                                                   Leasehold       Prepaid lease        Total
                                                                          lands         payments           RM
                                                                              RM                    RM

     Group                                                         16,737,790        4,797,151            21,534,941
     Cost                                                                       -   (604,876)              (604,876)
     At 1 January 2022                                                          -    (140,066)              (140,066)
     Transfer to property, plant and equipment                                     4,052,209            20,789,999
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                         16,737,790
     At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023                                         -       87,922                87,922
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                                          4,140,131            20,877,921
     At 31 December 2023                                           16,737,790

     Accumulated depreciation                                       2,241,433       1,313,048           3,554,481
     At 1 January 2022                                                 201,067       139,446               340,513
     Charge for the financial year                                              -    (116,804)            (116,804)
     Transfer to property, plant and equipment                                  -    (38,982)              (38,982)
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                                         1,296,708
     At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023                            2,442,500         137,547            3,739,208
     Charge for the financial year                                    201,066       (119,339)              338,613
     Transfer to property, plant and equipment                                  -     33,059              (119,339)
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                                      -  1,347,975                33,059
     At 31 December 2023
                                                                   2,643,566                            3,991,541

     Carrying amounts                                              14,295,290      2,755,501            17,050,791
     At 31 December 2022

     At 31 December 2023                                           14,094,224      2,792,156            16,886,380

     (a) Lands

             The lands are wholly related to leasehold lands with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.

     (b) Prepaid lease payments

             The prepaid lease payments are wholly related to a leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years.
             The prepaid lease payments are not transferable and have a remaining tenure of 33 years (2022: 34 years).

     (c) Security

             Leasehold lands and prepaid lease payments with net carrying amount of RM15,514,316 (2022: RM15,651,586) have been
             charged to licensed banks banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).

138
Our Commitment to Good         Financial                          Other                    ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance           Statements                         Information                                 2023

                                                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                   AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

                                                                                   Group   2022
                                                                                             RM
                                                                               2023
                                                                                 RM

Cost                                                                           10,491,946  10,491,946
At 1 January/31 December

Accumulated depreciation                                                       2,644,016   2,498,177
At 1 January                                                                     145,838     145,839
Charge for the financial year
At 31 December                                                                 2,789,854   2,644,016

Carrying amounts                                                               7,702,092   7,847,930
At 31 December

Represented by:                                                                5,730,845   5,812,254
Leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years                1,971,247  2,035,676
Buildings                                                                      7,702,092   7,847,930

Investment properties comprise two (2022: two) commercial properties that are leased to third parties. The leases are
renewable on yearly basis. No contingent is charged.

The fair value of the investment properties are as follows:

                                                                                   Group   2022
                                                                                             RM
                                                                               2023
                                                                                 RM

Cost                                                                           50,351,250  66,909,323
At 31 December

The Group estimates the fair value of its investment properties based on the comparison of the Group’s investment properties
with similar properties that were listed for sale within the same locality or other comparable localities.

                                                                                           139
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                       This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                 Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)

        The disclosure of fair value above was measured at the reporting date using the following method:

        Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)

        The valuation of commercial property is based on market comparable approach. The significant unobservable input is yield
        adjustment based on directors’ assumptions. The yield adjustments are made for any difference in the nature, location or
        condition of the specific property.

        The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:

                                                               Group      2022
                                                                            RM
                                                           2023
                                                             RM

     Rental income                                         (1,608,096)    (1,618,080)
     Direct operating expenses                                 129,806       123,995

     Investment properties of the Group amounting to RM7,702,092 (2022: RM7,847,930) has been charged to a licensed bank for
     credit facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 20).

     The operating lease payments to be received are as follows:

                                                               Group      2022
                                                                            RM
                                                           2023
                                                             RM

     Less than one year                                    1,566,284       1,613,472
     One to two years                                      2,709,068      3,132,568
     More than two years                                   1,047,552      2,190,336
     Total undiscounted lease payments                     5,322,904      6,936,376

140
Our Commitment to Good  Financial              Other                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements             Information                                      2023

                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES                                Company         2022
                                                                               RM
        Unquoted shares - at cost                           2023
        Increase stake in a subsidiary                        RM
        Dissolution of a subsidiary
                                                            37,578,006        37,037,514
        Less: Impairment loss                                             -      637,392
        At beginning of the financial year                                -      (96,900)
        Impairment loss no longer required
        At end of the financial year                        37,578,006       37,578,006

        Capital contribution                                              -      (96,900)
        Effect of movements in exchange rates                             -       96,900
                                                                          -
                                                            37,578,006                     -
                                                            20,730,322       37,578,006
                                                             7,008,924       20,730,322
                                                            65,317,252
                                                                              5,798,924
                                                                             64,107,252

                                                                             141
KAWAN FOOD           Kawan                                This is                               Our Strategic
BERHAD               At A Glance                          Kawan Food Berhad                     Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
        Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                                               Effective
                                              ownership

                                                interest

     Subsidiaries of the Group         2023          2022        Country of
                                         %             %       incorporation Principal activities

     Kawan Food Manufacturing          100           100       Malaysia      Manufacturing and sale of frozen food
        Sdn. Bhd.                                                               products

     KG Pastry Marketing Sdn. Bhd.     100           100       Malaysia      Investment property and rental of trucks

     Kawan Food Confectionery          100           100       Malaysia      Investment holding
        Sdn. Bhd.

     Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited*#  100           100       Hong Kong Trading and distribution of frozen food

                                                                             products

     KLBG Sdn. Bhd.                    100           100       Malaysia      Manufacturing and exporting of frozen food
                                                                                products

     Subsidiary of Kawan Food                        100       The People’s Manufacturing and trading of frozen food
        (Hong Kong) Limited

        Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.@ 100

                                                               Republic of   delicacies

                                                               China

     * Audited by other member firms of RSM International
     # The capital contribution to Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited are interest free and are determined to form part of the Company’s net

           investment in the subsidiary, hence are deemed as quasi-equity.
     @ Not audited by member firms of RSM International

     Non-controlling interests in subsidiary

     The Group’s subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) is as follows:

                                                                                                 KLBG Sdn. Bhd.     2022
                                                                                                                      RM
                                                                                                   2023
                                                                                                     RM

     NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest                                      -                40%
     Carrying amount of NCI
     Loss allocated to NCI                                                                         -                     -

                                                                                                   -             (20,981)

142
Our Commitment to Good              Financial         Other                                  ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance                Statements        Information                                               2023

                                                      NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                       AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE

                                                                                              Group  2022
                                                                                                       RM
                                                                                          2023
                                                                                            RM

Unquoted shares - at cost                                                                 -          2,000,000
Share of post-acquisition loss
                                                                                          -          (384,085)
Details of the associate are as follows:
                                                                                          -          1,615,915

                                           Effective
                                          ownership

                                            interest

Associate of the Group                    2023  2022    Country of
                                            %     %   incorporation Principal activities

Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd.#                     -     32.5  Malaysia  Sales of food and beverages via stall and
# Not audited by RSM Malaysia PLT.
                                                                drive-thru basis

In the previous financial year, the Group acquired 32.5% of equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd. for total consideration of
RM 2 million.

During the current financial year, the Group disposed its entire 32.5% equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd., for a total cash
consideration of RM600,000. As at 31 December 2023, the amount was held by the solicitor as a stakeholder, pursuant to the
shares sale and purchase agreement. This amount was subsequently received from the solicitor on 16 April 2024.

The associate was accounted for using the equity method by the Group based on management accounts as at 30 September
2023 (2022: 31 December 2022).

                                                                                                     143
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is                                                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad                                               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)                                                                            Kejap Food
        The following table summarises the audited information of the Group’s material associate:                        Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                                                                                2023
        Summarised financial information                                                                                           RM
        As at 30 September
        Non-current assets                                                                                                1,896,831
        Current assets                                                                                                   4,379,949
        Non-current liabilities                                                                                           (463,853)
        Current liabilities
        Net assets                                                                                                         (852,916)
        As at 30 September                                                                                                4,960,011
        Revenue
        Loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year                                                      2,140,560
        Group’s share of results                                                                                        (1,659,578)
        As at 30 September
        Group’s share of loss and total comprehensive expense for the financial year                                        (471,711)

11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE                                                                              Group     2022
        Unquoted shares - at cost                                                                         2023              RM

                                                                                                             RM       100,000

                                                                                                   2,600,000

144
Our Commitment to Good      Financial                                Other                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance        Statements                               Information                                            2023

                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE (CONTINUED)
        Details of the joint venture are as follows:

                             Effective
                            ownership

                              interest

Joint venture of the Group  2023                               2022    Country of
                              %                                  %   incorporation Principal activities

Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd. *^#  40                                 40    Malaysia  Venture into biocompost business

* On 9 November 2023, the Company has subscribed 2,500,000 redeemable preference shares in Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. for a total cash
      consideration of RM2,500,000. Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. is the subsidiary of Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd.

^ On 16 December 2022, the Group has established and registered a joint venture company with Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd. On 20 January 2023,
      the Group had via one of its wholly own subsidiaries, entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd., which is the
      counterparty of the joint venture.

# No summarised financial information has been disclosed as the directors of the Group regarded the financial information as immaterial
      to the Group.

12. OTHER INVESTMENTS                                                                 Shares                     Total
                                                                                  quoted in                         RM
        Group                                                                     Malaysia
        2023
        Current                                                                             RM
        Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
        Market value of quoted investments                                        9,240,224                      9,240,224
        2022                                                                      9,240,224                      9,240,224
        Current
        Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss                     2,799,036                      2,799,036
        Market value of quoted investments                                        2,799,036                      2,799,036

                                                                                                                 145
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                            This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                                      Kawan Food Berhad               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

12. OTHER INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)                                                                   Company    2022
                                                                                                                 RM
        Non-current                                                                                2023
        At cost                                                                                      RM
        Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares
        (Unquoted shares)                                                                    122,000,000       122,000,000
        Dividends recognised in profit or loss                                                  5,160,600        4,026,000

13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
        Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
        Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                                                     Assets                     Liabilities              Net

                                                 2023        2022               2023         2022  2023        2022
                                                   RM          RM                 RM           RM    RM          RM

     Group                                                -  - (17,000,691) (19,952,205) (17,000,691) (19,952,205)
     Property, plant and equipment           3,510,945
     Provisions                                              3,269,766          -            - 3,510,945 3,269,766
     Reinvestment allowance                               -
     Others                                     948,146      4,320,000          -            -              - 4,320,000
     Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)       4,459,091
     Set off                                (3,994,972)      123,850            -            -     948,146     123,850
     Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)      464,119
                                                             7,713,616 (17,000,691) (19,952,205) (12,541,600) (12,238,589)

                                                             (7,249,497) 3,994,972 7,249,497                -  -

                                                             464,119 (13,005,719) (12,702,708) (12,541,600) (12,238,589)

146
Our Commitment to Good         Financial                                    Other                                       ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance           Statements                                   Information                                                    2023

                                                                            NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                             AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
        Movement in temporary differences during the financial year

                                                        Recognised in                                      Recognised in

                                                                     other                                 other

                                      Recognised in comprehensive                      At  Recognised in comprehensive
                                                                            31.12.2022/
                               At     profit or loss    income                             profit or loss  income                       At
                        1.1.2022                                                1.1.2023                                      31.12.2023
                                           (Note 27)    (Note 28)                     RM   (Note 27)       (Note 28)
                             RM                                                                                                        RM
                                           RM                        RM                    RM                           RM

Group                   (15,334,754)       (4,617,451)                  -   (19,952,205)    2,951,564                      -  (17,000,641)
Property, plant and       2,464,567          805,199                    -     3,269,766         241,179                    -    3,510,945
                           (283,748)                                 (55)    4,443,850                                  (50)      948,096
   equipment            (13,153,935)       4,727,653                 (55)                  (3,495,704)                  (50)
Provisions                                    915,401                       (12,238,589)      (302,961)                       (12,541,600)
Others

As at 31 December 2023, the Group has the following deferred tax assets which are not recognised in the financial statements
due to uncertainty in the availability of future taxable income:

                                                                                                               Group          2022
                                                                                                                                RM
                                                                                                           2023
                                                                                                             RM

Property, plant and equipment                                                                                (2,489)          (92,514)
Unabsorbed capital allowances                                                                              114,880            140,291
Unabsorbed tax losses                                                                                      184,602            262,813
                                                                                                           296,993            310,590

As at 31 December 2023, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances and unabsorbed tax losses of approximately
RM478,668 (2022: RM584,000) and RM769,174 (2022: RM1,095,000) respectively, which are available to set off against future
chargeable income.

The unabsorbed capital allowances are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits except for the tax losses
which will expire in the following financial years:

                                                                                                               Group          2022
                                                                                                                                RM
                                                                                                           2023
                                                                                                             RM

Year of assessments                                                                                                  -        300,817
2029                                                                                                       485,315            532,821
2030                                                                                                       106,248            106,248
2031
2032                                                                                                        177,611             177,611

                                                                                                                              147
KAWAN FOOD              Kawan                     This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD                  At A Glance               Kawan Food Berhad               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                            Note      Group          2022          Company       2022
                                                                       RM                          RM
                                                  2023                            2023
                                                    RM                              RM

     Trade

     Trade receivables                      (a)   77,431,605         67,939,251   -              -

     Less: Impairment loss

     - Individual impairment losses               (1,113,811)        (1,195,814)  -              -

     - Collective impairment losses               (547,886)          (373,088)    -              -

     Effect of movements in exchange rates        (62,691)           (15,920)     -              -

                                                  75,707,217         66,354,429   -              -

     Non-trade                              (b)   -                  -            5,223,465      10,654,204
     Amount due from subsidiaries
     Other receivables                            2,974,844          6,192,784    2,000          2,000

                                                  2,974,844          6,192,784    5,225,465      10,656,204

                                                  78,682,061         72,547,213   5,225,465      10,656,204

     (a) Trade receivables

             Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days (2022: 30 to 90 days) terms. They are
             recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial recognition.

             Included in trade receivables of the Group is amount of RM12,400,369 (2022: RM11,858,158) due from companies in which
             certain directors have interests and held directorship.

     (b) Amount due from subsidiaries

             Amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, interest free and receivable on demand.

148
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                 Other                       ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                Information                                    2023

                                                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                   AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

15. INVENTORIES                                                                    Group      2022
                                                                                                RM
        At cost                                                                2023
        Raw materials                                                            RM
        Packing materials
        Finished goods                                                           3,795,723      5,805,901
        Spare parts                                                               5,126,210      6,172,907
        Goods-in-transit                                                       23,996,626     24,506,350
                                                                                5,920,669       5,613,789
        Less: Allowance for slow moving inventories
        At beginning of the financial year                                         303,881         539,018
        Allowance during the financial year                                    39,143,109     42,637,965
        Allowance no longer required
        At end of the financial year                                              (604,162)     (469,444)
                                                                                (5,073,310)     (243,884)
        Recognised in profit or loss:                                            2,963,925
        Inventories recognised as cost of sales                                 (2,713,547)         109,167
        Inventories written off                                                36,429,562         (604,161)
        Provision for slow moving inventories                                                 42,033,804
        Provision for slow moving inventories no longer required
                                                                               205,145,028    190,822,578
                                                                                  2,404,240       435,645
                                                                                   5,073,310       243,884
                                                                                 (2,963,925)       (109,167)

                                                                                              149
KAWAN FOOD         Kawan                            This is                          Our Strategic
BERHAD             At A Glance                      Kawan Food Berhad                Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

                                                        Group          2022                Company            2022
                                                                         RM                                     RM
                                                    2023                                  2023
                                                      RM                                    RM

     Money market funds with licensed fund               452,180            560,714     206,545                   201,828
        management companies                        40,562,580         53,899,555     1,870,672                 1,810,259
        - redeemable at call                         41,014,760        54,460,269      2,077,217               2,012,087
        - redeemable upon 1 day notice               63,286,933                      10,415,397                8,213,846
                                                    104,301,693          44,121,393  12,492,614               10,225,933
     Cash and bank balances                                            98,581,662

17. SHARE CAPITAL

                                                                       Group and Company

                                                    Number of ordinary shares             Amount

                                                    2023               2022               2023                2022
                                                                                            RM                  RM

     Issued and fully paid with no par value        362,581,760        359,519,760   184,889,706              179,759,880

     At 1 January                                                   -    3,062,000                   -           5,129,826
     Issued for cash under Employees’ Share Option  362,581,760        362,581,760   184,889,706              184,889,706

        Scheme
     At 31 December

     The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per
     share at meetings of the Company.

     There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.

18. TREASURY SHARES                                                                  Group and Company

        At cost                                                                           2023                2022
        At 1 January                                                                        RM                  RM
        Acquired during the financial year
        At 31 December                                                                 (1,345,429)                         -
                                                                                     (22,899,480)             (1,345,429)
                                                                                     (24,244,909)             (1,345,429)

150
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)

        The shares purchased can be retained as treasury shares, distributed as dividend, transferred, resold or subsequently
        cancelled in accordance with Section 127 of the Companies Act 2016.

        During the financial year, the Company repurchased its shares of 12,275,100 (2022: 882,100) ordinary shares with total
        consideration of RM22,899,480 (2022: RM1,345,429) as follows:

                                    Number of       Purchase                   Total
                                          shares          price  consideration

Date                                     156,500                                paid
                                        286,500                                 (RM)
6 October 2023                          734,200
9 October 2023                          846,900     1.818          284,528
10 October 2023                          614,100    1.830          524,418
11 October 2023                          919,900    1.845        1,354,482
12 October 2023                           157,100   1.869        1,582,839
13 October 2023                         240,000     1.870         1,148,318
16 October 2023                                     1.865        1,715,650
17 October 2023                            31,600   1.845          289,900
18 October 2023                           63,500    1.850         444,000
19 October 2023                         265,000     1.850           58,460
20 October 2023                         275,800     1.850           117,475
23 October 2023                           88,000    1.859          492,669
24 October 2023                                     1.857           512,229
25 October 2023                             8,200   1.840           161,920
26 October 2023                          917,200    1.878
27 October 2023                                     1.870             15,401
30 October 2023                             5,000   1.870         1,715,091
1 November 2023                            15,500   1.860
2 November 2023                                     1.860             9,350
3 November 2023                              1,800  1.860            28,830
7 November 2023                         200,000     1.857
8 November 2023                          158,300    1.861             3,348
9 November 2023                         414,500     1.865          372,000
10 November 2023                         281,500    1.863          294,033
14 November 2023                         232,700    1.860          771,405
17 November 2023                        287,500     1.865         524,868
20 November 2023                        696,600      1.871         433,622
21 November 2023                         341,400    1.880         534,649
22 November 2023                         120,000    1.875        1,299,417
23 November 2023                         201,000    1.878          638,657
24 November 2023                        325,800     1.877          225,600
27 November 2023                        274,300     1.875          376,929
28 November 2023                         199,200    1.858           611,732
                                        262,800     1.876          514,740
                                         198,000                   373,504
                                                                  488,369
                                                                    371,381

                                                                 151
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is                          Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad                Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)

                                                      Number of     Purchase                     Total
                                                            shares        price    consideration

     Date                                                                                         paid
                                                                                                  (RM)

     29 November 2023                                   240,000     1.879              451,058
     30 November 2023                                    159,700    1.877               299,752
     1 December 2023                                     107,800    1.880              202,664
     4 December 2023                                    205,400     1.878              385,799
     5 December 2023                                      171,300   1.879               321,801
     6 December 2023                                     137,500    1.879              258,430
     7 December 2023                                     185,000    1.877               347,219
     8 December 2023                                     145,600    1.878               273,502
     12 December 2023                                    180,800    1.879              339,635
     13 December 2023                                   200,000     1.867              373,426
     14 December 2023                                    107,200    1.880               201,536
     15 December 2023                                    106,000    1.880               199,280
     18 December 2023                                     114,700   1.880               215,636
     20 December 2023                                    133,000    1.880              250,040
     21 December 2023                                    150,300    1.879              282,346
     22 December 2023                                    110,400    1.880              207,542
                                                      12,275,100                   22,899,480

     At the reporting date, the number of outstanding shares in issue after setting off the treasury shares against equity was
     349,424,560 (2022: 361,699,660).

152
Our Commitment to Good     Financial                    Other                                     ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance       Statements                   Information                                                  2023

                                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

19. RESERVES

                                                            Group      2022           Company     2022
                                                                         RM                         RM
                                                        2023                         2023
                                                          RM                           RM

Non-distributable:                                      8,147,741      8,248,271     -            -
Translation reserve
ESOS share option reserve                               2,190,502      -             2,190,502    -

                                                        10,338,243     8,248,271     2,190,502    -

Distributable:                                            222,182,721  205,075,276    27,700,391  25,731,549
Retained earnings                                       232,520,964     213,323,547  29,890,893   25,731,549

Translation reserve

The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
the Group entities with functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”).

                                                                                         Group    2022
                                                                                                    RM
                                                                                     2023
                                                                                       RM

At beginning of financial year                                                       8,248,271    10,883,559
Foreign currency translation during the financial year                               (100,530)    (2,635,288)
At end of financial year                                                             8,147,741
                                                                                                    8,248,271

Share option reserve

The share option reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of share options. When
the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital. When the share options
expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.

Share-based payments arrangement

Share option programme (equity settled)

On 31 May 2018, the shareholders of the Company approved the Employees’ Share Option Scheme. In accordance with this
programme, holders of vested options are entitled to purchase shares at the market price of the shares at the date of grant.

                                                                                                  153
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                             This is                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                       Kawan Food Berhad                          Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
        Share-based payments arrangement (continued)
        Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)
        The terms and conditions related to the grant of the share option scheme are as follows; all options are to be settled by
        physical delivery of shares:

     Grant date/employee entitled             Number of   Contractual life               Exercisable period
                                                options       of options

     2023                                       250,000   0.5 year                       28 July 2023 to 25 January 2024
                                              9,320,000
     Option granted to eligible employees on  9,320,000   1 year                         1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024
        26 July 2023                          9,320,000
                                              1,800,000   1 year                         1 January 2025 to 31 December 2025
     Option granted to eligible employees on  30,010,000
        15 September 2023                                 1 year                         1 January 2026 to 31 December 2026

     Option granted to eligible employees on              3 years           18 December 2023 to 31 December 2026
        15 September 2023

     Option granted to eligible employees on
        15 September 2023

     Option granted to eligible employees on
        22 November 2023

     Total share options

     2022                                     250,000     1 year                         20 June 2022 to 19 June 2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on  250,000

        20 June 2022
     Total share options

     No vesting conditions for options offered.
     The number and weighted average exercise process of shares options are as follows:

     Outstanding at 1 January                                                                     2023              2022
     Granted during the financial year                                                   Number of         Number of
     Exercised during the financial year
     Lapsed during the financial year                                                        options           options
     Outstanding at 31 December
                                                                                                        -     3,801,500
     Exercisable at 31 December                                                          30,010,000             250,000

                                                                                                        -   (3,062,000)
                                                                                                        -     (989,500)
                                                                                         30,010,000                       -

                                                                                          11,370,000                      -

154
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                  Other                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                 Information                                            2023

                                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)

        Share-based payments arrangement (continued)

        Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)

        During the financial year, the share options granted have an exercise price of RM1.660 to RM1.6925 (2022: RM1.540) and
        contractual life of 0.5 to 3 years (2022: 1 year). No option outstanding at 31 December 2023.

        The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options granted,
        measured using trinomial option pricing model, with the following inputs:

Fair value of share options and assumptions                                                     2023        2022
Fair value at grant date                                                                           RM         RM

Weighted average share price                                                       0.1911 to 0.1978       0.1254
Share price at grant date
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility)                                    1.866 to 1.872         1.703
Options life (expected weighted average life)                                           1.66 to 1.69       1.540
Expected dividends                                                                                     28.390%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysia Government Securities)               25.17% to 27.00%          1 year
                                                                                  0.50 to 3 years        1.762%
Value of employee services received for issue of share options                      1.92% to 1.94%      2.925%

                                                                                3.333% to 3.636%

Share options granted                                                                      Group        2022
Total expenses recognised as shared-based payments                                    2023                 RM

                                                                                         RM            31,350
                                                                                                       31,350
                                                                                2,190,502
                                                                                2,190,502

                                                                                                       155
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                          This is                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                    Kawan Food Berhad                          Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

20. LOANS AND BORROWINGS

                                                                                                   Group  2022
                                                                                               2023         RM

                                                                                                 RM

     Term loans                                                                       3,560,015           6,398,772
     Classified as:                                                                   3,560,015           6,398,772

        - current liability

     Present value of term loans                                                      3,560,015           6,398,772
     Analysed as follows:                                                             3,560,015           6,398,772

        - not later than 1 year

     The Group’s term loans are secured over leasehold lands and buildings of subsidiaries and subject to interest at rates ranging
     from 1.15% to 1.34% (2022: 2.93% to 5.69%) per annum (Notes 6, 7 and 8).

21. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

                                     Note      Group          2022                              Company   2022
                                           2023                 RM                             2023         RM

                                             RM                                                  RM

     Trade                           (a)   27,090,602         20,905,294                       -                   -
     Trade payables
                                           7,618,974          6,512,302                   154,127           35,371
     Non-trade                                                                           103,080          153,624
     Other payables                        16,123,848         17,231,692              13,600,710
     Accruals                                                                         13,857,917            43,174
     Amount due to a subsidiary      (b)   -                  -                       13,857,917          232,169
                                                                                                          232,169
                                           23,742,822         23,743,994

                                           50,833,424         44,649,288

     (a) Trade payables

     (i) Credit terms of trade payables are ranging from 30 to 60 days (2022: 30 to 60 days).

     (ii) Included in trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM288,788 (2022: RM281,965) due to companies in which
             certain directors have interests.

     (b) Amount due to a subsidiary

     Amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

156
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                              Other                                  ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                             Information                                               2023

                                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

22. REVENUE

                                                              Group            2022             Company     2022
                                                                                 RM                           RM
                                                          2023                                 2023
                                                            RM                                   RM

                                                  (Restated)

Revenue from contracts with customers             287,215,315        274,761,875                   -                -
Others
                                                                 -                 -  18,181,788         14,811,593
   - dividends                                    287,215,315        274,761,875      18,181,788         14,811,593

Revenue from contracts with customers in primary  129,706,320         114,312,756     18,181,788         14,811,593
   geographical markets                             56,117,961        65,351,884                   -                -
                                                                     49,793,980                    -                -
Malaysia                                          50,947,926          30,180,269                   -                -
North America                                     34,545,789          13,850,829                   -                -
Rest of Asia                                        14,059,173                                     -                -
Europe                                                                   1,272,157
Oceania                                              1,838,146       274,761,875      18,181,788         14,811,593
Africa                                            287,215,315

Timing of recognition                             287,215,315        274,761,875      18,181,788         14,811,593
At a point in time

Nature                  Timing of         Significant          Variableelement Obligation for
of goods                ecognition        payment terms        in consideration returns or refund Warranty

Frozen food             Revenue is        Local sales:         Discounts,      Not applicable  Not applicable
products                recognised        Credit period of     rebates and
                        upon transfer     30 to 90 days        incentives
                        of significant    from invoice date    are given to
                        risk and reward                        customers on a
                        of ownership of   Export sales:        case-by case
                        the goods to the  Telegraphic          basis.
                        customer          transfer at sight
                                          and telegraphic
                                          transfer 90 days
                                          from bill of lading
                                          date

                                                                                                               157
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                                  This is                           Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                                            Kawan Food Berhad                 Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

23. OTHER INCOME                                                       Group          2022            Company       2022
                                                                                        RM                            RM
        Gain on foreign exchange:                                  2023                              2023
           - realised                                                RM                                RM
           - unrealised
                                                                    1,158,397         4,144,350                  -            -
        Rental income                                               1,178,362           725,768      1,273,656      1,413,758
        Other income                                                4,721,713
        Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment          1,833,580          4,530,025                  -            -
                                                                                        1,717,348        13,495               -
                                                                       34,496                     -                           -
                                                                   8,926,548            11,117,491               -  1,413,758
                                                                                                      1,287,151

24. FINANCE INCOME                                                     Group          2022            Company       2022
                                                                                        RM                            RM
        Interest income of financial assets calculated using       2023                              2023
           the effective interest method that are at fair value      RM                                RM
           through profit or loss:
           - money market funds with licensed fund                 1,165,003          890,846        112,935        63,306
               management companies

25. FINANCE COSTS                                                      Group          2022            Company       2022
                                                                                        RM                            RM
        Interest expense of financial liabilities that are not at  2023                              2023
           fair value through profit or loss:                        RM                                RM
           - term loans, secured
           - other bank charges                                    207,781            168,681        -              -
                                                                            -         143,642
                                                                                      312,323        -              7,745
                                                                   207,781
                                                                                                     -              7,745

158
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                                      Other                                           ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                                     Information                                                        2023

                                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                        AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

26. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON
        Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting):

                                                                           Group       2022             Company        2022
                                                                                         RM                              RM
                                                                       2023                            2023
                                                                         RM                              RM

Auditor’s remuneration:                                                    271,537        301,000          56,500         55,000
- audit fees                                                                 8,000           8,000           8,000          8,000
- non-audit fees                                                                    -                               -              -
Bad debts written off                                                                      187,249                  -              -
Depreciation of investment properties                                     145,838         145,839                   -              -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                          19,162,255      18,749,314                   -              -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                                                        340,513                  -              -
Employees’ share option scheme expenses                                   338,613                                   -              -
Fair value loss on financial assets                                     2,190,502           31,350                  -              -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                           95,279
Gain on foreign exchange:                                                 558,812         (43,493)     (1,273,656)     (1,413,758)
                                                                          (34,496)                                  -              -
   - unrealised                                                                          (725,768)                  -              -
   - realised                                                          (1,178,362)     (4,144,350)
Impairment loss on investment in an associate                          (1,158,397)                                  -             -
Impairment loss on trade receivables:                                                               -               -             -
   - collective impairment loss                                          544,203                                    -             -
   - individual impairment loss                                                          208,555                    -             -
Inventories written off                                                    162,239        856,822
Loss from disposal of an associate                                        105,354        435,645                    -          330
Loss on foreign exchange:                                              2,404,240
   - realised                                                             855,797                   -                             -
Personnel expenses (including key management                                                                              54,000
   personnel):                                                                      -           330
   - contributions to state plans                                                                                                 -
   - wages, salaries and others                                        3,000,658        3,621,283              -                  -
Property, plant and equipment written off                               41,931,411     41,306,189      54,000
Provision for slow moving inventories                                                                                             -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer                           905,647           18,494             -
   required                                                             5,073,310        243,884               -                  -
Rental expenses (#) in respect of:                                                                                                -
   - coldroom                                                          (2,963,925)        (109,167)            -                  -
   - storage
   - hostel                                                                 35,094         49,886              -                  -
Rental income from:                                                         94,645         35,257              -                  -
   - investment properties                                                 892,100        187,570              -                  -
   - office and factory
   - coldroom                                                          (1,608,096)     (1,618,080)             -                  -
   - hostel                                                              (441,973)      (489,074)              -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables:                                      (2,422,871)             -
   - individual impairment loss                                        (2,671,644)
                                                                          (261,897)       (124,212)            -

                                                                          (174,798)       (74,206)

# For short-term leases with lease term of 12 months or less and for leases of low value assets of less than RM21,000, the Group has availed
      the exemption in MFRS 16 not to recognise the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Instead, payments made for these leases are
      recognised as expense when incurred.

                                                                                                                       159
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                         This is                          Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                                   Kawan Food Berhad                Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

27. TAXATION                                                  Group          2022           Company       2022
                                                                               RM                           RM
        Current tax                                       2023                             2023
        Malaysia                                            RM                               RM
        - current
        - over provision in prior financial years          4,415,410         2,975,218     -              -
        Overseas                                                       -      (361,732)
        - current                                                                          -              -
        - under/(over) provision in prior financial year        19,174                  -
                                                                6,066           (31,813)   -              -
        Deferred tax                                      4,440,650          2,581,673
        - original and reversal of temporary differences                                   -              -
        - under provision in prior financial years
                                                                                           -              -
        Total tax expense
                                                          (3,495,704)        (3,154,580)   -              -
                                                            3,192,743         2,239,179
                                                             (302,961)          (915,401)  -              -
                                                            4,137,689         1,666,272
                                                                                           -              -

                                                                                           -              -

160
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                  Other                                           ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                 Information                                                        2023

                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

27. TAXATION (CONTINUED)

        Reconciliation of effective tax expense

        The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting results multiplied by the applicable tax
        rates are as follows:

                                                       Group        2022            Company        2022
                                                                      RM                             RM
                                                   2023                            2023
                                                     RM                              RM

Profit before taxation                             34,266,322       40,144,010     17,180,532      14,834,778

Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of  8,223,917        9,634,563      4,123,327       3,560,347
   24% (2022: 24%)
                                                     1,322,996        1,465,008        570,131         348,931
Tax effects in respect of:                            (297,164)         (371,315)    (305,677)       (339,302)
                                                     (382,510)           (90,125)  (4,387,781)     (3,569,976)
Non-deductible expenses
Non-taxable income                                   (897,462)      (4,320,000)                 -               -
Tax exempt income                                  (5,784,149)      (5,481,838)                 -               -
Recognition of reinvestment allowance incentive    (1,084,093)       (1,070,106)                -               -
                                                                                                -               -
   previously not recognised                                     -           840                -               -
Reinvestment allowance incentive                          6,968          56,206                 -               -
Double deduction on qualifying expenditure            (169,623)           (2,595)               -               -
Deferred tax assets not recognised                    938,880          (179,362)
Effect of deferred tax assets not recognised
Others                                             6,066            (393,545)      -               -

(Over)/Under provision:                            3,192,743        2,239,179      -               -
- current tax
- deferred tax

                                                   4,137,689        1,666,272      -               -

                                                                                                   161
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                             This is                                            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                       Kawan Food Berhad                                  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

28. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE                                                                      Group      2022
                                                                                                                  RM
        Foreign currency translation gain for foreign operations during the financial year       2023
        Less: Tax expense                                                                          RM
        Net of tax
                                                                                                 (100,480)      (2,635,233)
                                                                                                         (50)             (55)

                                                                                                 (100,530)      (2,635,288)

29. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

        Basic earnings per ordinary share

        The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2023 was based on the profit attributable to owners
        of the Company of RM30,128,633 (2022: RM38,498,719) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
        360,695,634 (2022: 359,956,028).

        Diluted earnings per ordinary share

        The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2023 was based on the profit attributable to owners of
        the Company of RM30,128,633 and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 361,001,113 after adjustment
        for the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).

30. DIVIDENDS
        Dividends recognised by the Company:

                                                                          Sen                        Total         Date of
                                                                 per share                       amount         payment

                                                                           RM

     2023                                                                                   3.6  13,021,188 31 March 2023
     Interim 2023 ordinary - single tier

     2022                                                                                   3.0  10,768,982 30 March 2022
     Interim 2022 ordinary - single tier

     In respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2024, an interim single tier dividend of 4.2 sen per ordinary share totalling
     RM14,703,023 was declared on 6 March 2024 and paid on 2 April 2024.

162
Our Commitment to Good    Financial             Other                                                   ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance      Statements            Information                                                                2023

                                                NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS

        The accounting policies of the reportable segments are as described in Note 3(t).

        The Group’s reportable segments are organised in accordance with the Group entities, which are the Group’s strategic
        business units. The strategic business units offer products to different markets and managed separately because they require
        different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision
        maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a quarterly basis.

        Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest and depreciation, as included in the internal
        management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Group’s chief operating decision maker.
        Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in
        evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.

        Segment assets

        The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of a segment, as included in the internal
        management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer. Segment total assets are used to measure the return
        on assets of each segment.

        Segment liabilities

        Segment liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provide regularly to the Chief
        Executive Officer. Hence no disclosure is made on segment liabilities.

        Segment capital expenditure

        Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and equipment,
        investment properties and intangible assets other than goodwill.

                                                                                         Manufacturing and trading

                                                                                         2023           2022
                                                                                           RM             RM

Group                                                                                    65,151,096     74,530,477
Reporting segment profit

Included in the measure of segment profit are:                                            287,215,315   274,761,875
   - revenue from external customers                                                     148,538,360      161,381,152
   - inter-company revenue

Not included in the measure of reporting segment profit but provided to Chief Executive  (19,812,449)   (19,235,666)
   Officer:                                                                                  (207,781)      (312,323)
   - depreciation                                                                           1,165,003       890,846
   - finance costs
   - finance income                                                                       (4,137,689)     (1,666,272)
   - income tax expense

Segment assets                                                                           5,824,333      9,677,916
Included in the measure of segment assets are:

   - additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax
      assets

                                                                                                        163
KAWAN FOOD           Kawan                                     This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD               At A Glance                               Kawan Food Berhad               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
        Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and other material items:

                                                                                                             Group      2022
                                                                                                                          RM
                                                                                                         2023
                                                                                                           RM

     Profit or loss                                                                                       65,151,096     74,530,477
     Total profit or loss for reportable segments                                                        (12,029,547)   (15,729,324)
     Elimination of inter-segment profits                                                                (19,812,449)   (19,235,666)
     Depreciation
     Finance income                                                                                         1,165,003       890,846
     Finance costs                                                                                           (207,781)      (312,323)
     Consolidated profit before tax                                                                       34,266,322      40,144,010

                                                   External    Depreciation       Finance                Finance        Segment
                                                   revenue                    RM      costs              income             assets
                                                                                         RM                                      RM
                                                           RM                                                   RM

     2023                          435,753,675                 (19,812,449)       (207,781)              1,165,003      802,978,599
     Total reportable segments
     Elimination of inter-segment  (148,538,360)                              -             -                       -   (342,221,890)
                                     287,215,315               (19,812,449)       (207,781)              1,165,003      460,756,709
        transactions or balances
     Consolidated

     2022                          436,143,027                 (19,235,666)       (312,323)              890,846        799,705,404
     Total reportable segments
     Elimination of inter-segment  (161,381,152)                             -              -                      -    (338,895,022)
                                   274,761,875                 (19,235,666)       (312,323)              890,846          460,810,382
        transactions or balances
     Consolidated

     Geographical segments

     The manufacturing of frozen food products is carried out solely in Malaysia and China.

     In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of
     customers.

     Geographical information

     The geographical information is shown in Note 22.

     Major customer

     The Group has one (2022: one) major customer contributing approximately 12% (2022: 13%) of the Group’s total revenue.

164
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                              Other                                               ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                             Information                                                            2023

                                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Categories of financial instruments of the Group and of the Company are as follows:

                                                                   Group          2022              Company        2022
                                                                                    RM                               RM
                                                               2023                                2023
                                                                 RM                                  RM

Assets                                                                         -                -  122,000,000     122,000,000
Financial assets at amortised cost                              78,682,061          72,547,213        5,225,465     10,656,204
                                                                63,286,933          44,121,393       10,415,397       8,213,846
   - Other investments                                         141,968,994        116,668,606
   - Trade and other receivables                                                                   137,640,862     140,870,050
   - Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                 9,240,224          2,799,036                 -               -
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss           41,014,760        54,460,269       2,077,217       2,012,087
   - Other investments                                         50,254,984         57,259,305       2,077,217       2,012,087
   - Short-term investments
                                                                 3,560,015          6,398,772                   -           -
Liabilities                                                    50,833,424         44,649,288       13,857,917      232,169
Financial liabilities at amortised cost                        54,393,439         51,048,060       13,857,917      232,169

   - Loans and borrowings
   - Trade and other payables

(b) Net (losses)/gains arising from financial instruments          Group          2022              Company        2022
                                                                                    RM                               RM
        Net (losses)/ gains on:                                2023                                2023
        Financial instruments at fair value through profit or    RM                                  RM

           loss                                                (558,812)          (95,279)                 -               -
        Other investments – recognised in profit or loss       1,165,003          890,846          112,935         63,306
        Short-term investments – recognised in profit or loss                     795,567          112,935         63,306
                                                                 606,191

                                                                                                                   165
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

        The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:

        (a) Credit risk
        (b) Liquidity risk
        (c) Market risk

        (a) Credit risk

                 Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
                 its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its receivables from customers.

                 (i) Receivables

                         Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                         Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
                         Normally financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or directors of the Company are obtained, and credit
                         evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.

                         At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables is credit impaired.

                         The gross carrying amount of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or in full) when there
                         is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not
                         have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amount subject to write
                         off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

                         There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.

                         Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                         At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from receivables is represented by
                         the carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.

                         Management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are
                         stated at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular customers that have been
                         transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the receivables. Any
                         receivables having significant balances past due more than 90 days, which are deemed to have higher credit risk,
                         are monitored individually.

                         When an account is more than 90 days past due, the credit risk is considered to have increased significantly since
                         the initial recognition. The Group and the Company identify as a default account if it is more than 90 days past due
                         and the customer is having significant financial difficulties (analysed by financial measures of reported losses,
                         negative cash flows, and qualitative evaluation of the customer’s characteristics). The Group and the Company
                         classify an impaired receivable when a customer is in default, in liquidation or other financial reorganisation.

                         For each receivable, the lifetime Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) is recognised using the probability of default
                         technique. The inputs used are: (i) the percent chance of default, and (ii) the expected cash shortfalls. The lifetime
                         ECL is measured at the probability-weighted expected cash shortfalls by reference to the Group’s past experience,
                         current conditions and forecast of future economic benefits.

166
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                     ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                  2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Concentration of credit risk
                         The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period by geographic region was as
                         follows:

                                                     Group    2022
                                                                RM
                                                 2023
                                                   RM

Malaysia                                         28,010,543      27,814,311
North America                                    22,316,090    19,921,693
Europe                                           10,364,846    8,369,442
Rest of Asia                                      11,202,829   7,564,055
Oceania                                           3,347,664
Africa                                                           2,554,121
                                                     465,245       130,807
                                                  75,707,217
                                                              66,354,429

At the end of the reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for the amount
due from one customer (2022: one customer) representing 19% (2022: 15%) of total trade receivables of the Group.
The Group does not anticipate the carrying amount recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly
different from the value that would eventually be received.

                                                              167
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                               This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Impairment losses
                         The ageing analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period was:

                                                                                                              Effect of

                                      Gross       Individual       Collective movements in                                      Net
                                   amount       impairment                                                               amount
                                                                   impairment exchange rates
                                          RM                  RM                                                                RM
                                                                   RM                                         RM

            Group                  47,712,344              -        (59,940)                                    (1,813)  47,650,591
            2023                   13,670,669              -         (123,181)                                 (5,218)   13,542,270
            Not past due           13,060,423              -       (241,469)                                  (10,775)   12,808,179
            Past due 1-30 days
            Past due 31-90 days     2,988,169   (1,113,811)         (123,296)                                 (44,885)      1,706,177
            Past due more than      29,719,261  (1,113,811)        (487,946)                                  (60,878)   28,056,626
                                   77,431,605   (1,113,811)        (547,886)                                   (62,691)   75,707,217
               90 days
            Total past due

            2022                    43,681,223             -        (63,558)                                   (2,063)   43,615,602
            Not past due            10,154,083             -         (49,371)                                  (2,254)    10,102,458
            Past due 1-30 days       8,167,745             -        (98,468)
            Past due 31-90 days                                                                                 (5,116)     8,064,161
            Past due more than 90   5,936,200   (1,195,814)          (161,691)
                                   24,258,028   (1,195,814)        (309,530)                                   (6,487)     4,572,208
               days                67,939,251   (1,195,814)        (373,088)                                  (13,857)   22,738,827
            Total past due                                                                                    (15,920)   66,354,429

            For balances which are past due but not impaired, management is monitoring individual balances closely and
            is confident of repayment based on subsequent collections after year end past repayment trends of these
            customers.

168
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                  Other                       ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                 Information                                    2023

                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Impairment losses (continued)
                         The allowance account is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the
                         amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable directly.
                         The impairment loss as at end of reporting period was:

                                                                    Group      2022
                                                                                 RM
                                                                2023
                                                                  RM

At 1 January                                                    1,584,822       605,576
Impairment loss recognised:
                                                                  105,354       856,822
   - Individual impairment loss                                   154,856       208,555
   - Collective impairment loss
Impairment loss no longer required:                              (183,335)       (74,206)
   - Individual impairment loss
Impairment loss written off on trade receivables:                           -    (67,269)
   - Individual impairment loss                                     62,691        55,344
Effect of movements in exchange rates                           1,724,388      1,584,822
At 31 December

(ii) Cash and cash equivalents

        The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the reporting period,
        the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.

        These banks and financial institutions have low credit risk. Consequently, the Group and the Company are of the
        view that the loss allowances are not material and hence, it is not provided for.

                                                                               169
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is                                         Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad                               Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (iii) Financial guarantees
                         Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                         The Group and the Company provide unsecured financial guarantees to third parties and banks in respect of
                         banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
                         Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
                         The table below summarised the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group and of the Company as at the end
                         of the reporting period:

                                                                                       Group      2022
                                                                                                    RM
                                                                                   2023
                                                                                     RM

            Corporate guarantees issued in favour of third parties                 1,884,306      1,841,067

                                                                                    Company       2022
                                                                                                    RM
                                                                                   2023
                                                                                     RM

            Corporate guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities granted  3,560,015      6,398,772
               to subsidiaries, representing the outstanding loan amounts of the
               subsidiaries (Note 20)

     (iv) Inter-company advances
             Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
             The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the
             subsidiaries to repay advances on an individual basis.
             Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
             As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts
             in the statement of financial position.
             Advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.
             Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.

170
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (a) Credit risk (continued)

                 (iv) Inter-company advances (continued)

                         Recognition and measurement of impairment losses

                         Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes that
                         there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly. As the
                         Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the
                         Company considers the advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The
                         Company considers a subsidiary’s advances to be credit impaired when:

                         • the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
                         • the subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; or
                         • the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

                         The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal information
                         available.

                         As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advance to the subsidiaries are not
                         recoverable.

        (b) Liquidity risk

                 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as and when
                 they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables,
                 corporate guarantees, loans and borrowings.

                 The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by
                 the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.

                                                 171
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                          This is                             Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                    Kawan Food Berhad                   Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (b) Liquidity risk (continued)
                 Maturity analysis
                 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end
                 of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:

                                           Carrying        Contractual         Contractual       Less than
                                            amount         interest rate         cash flows           1 year
                                                                                             RM            RM
                                                    RM                      %

     2023                                    3,560,015     1.15% - 1.34%         3,560,015         3,560,015
     Group                                 50,833,424                          50,833,424        50,833,424
     Non-derivative financial liabilities  54,393,439                          54,393,439        54,393,439
     Loans and borrowings
     Trade and other payables              -                                   1,884,306         1,884,306

     Financial guarantees*                 13,857,917                          13,857,917        13,857,917
        (Note 33(a)(iii))                               -
                                                                               3,560,015         3,560,015
     Company
     Non-derivative financial liabilities
     Trade and other payables

     Financial guarantees*
        (Note 33(a)(iii))

172
Our Commitment to Good  Financial          Other                                              ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements         Information                                                           2023

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (b) Liquidity risk (continued)

                                           Carrying     Contractual         Contractual       Less than
                                            amount      interest rate         cash flows           1 year
                                                                                          RM            RM
                                                    RM                   %

2022                                         6,398,772  2.93% - 5.69%         6,440,777         6,440,777
Group                                      44,649,288                       44,649,288        44,649,288
Non-derivative financial liabilities       51,048,060                       51,090,065        51,090,065
Loans and borrowings

Trade and other payables

Financial guarantees*                      -                                1,841,067         1,841,067
   (Note 33(a)(iii))

Company                                    232,169                          232,169           232,169
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables

Financial guarantees*                      -                                6,398,772         6,398,772
   (Note 33(a)(iii))

* As at end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment. Hence,
      the financial guarantees have not been recognised. The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is
      required to be settled in the event of the triggering event.

(c) Market risk

Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other prices will
affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.

(i) Currency risk

The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and cash and cash
equivalents that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Australia Dollar (“AUD”), Euro (“EURO”), British Pound Sterling
(“GBP”), Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”), Renminbi (“RMB”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) and United States Dollar (“USD”).

Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

The Group and the Company manage its foreign currency exposure by matching as far as possible receipts
and payments in each individual currency. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk is
monitored on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Company enter into forward exchange contracts in the normal
course of business, where appropriate, to manage its exposure against foreign currency fluctuations on sales and
purchase transactions denominated in foreign currencies.

                                                                                              173
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                     This is                        Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance               Kawan Food Berhad              Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (c) Market risk (continued)
                 (i) Currency risk (continued)
                         Exposure to foreign currency risk
                         The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional
                         currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:

                             AUD      EURO     GBP       HKD         RMB            SGD  USD
                              RM         RM     RM        RM           RM            RM   RM

            2023             -        -        -         -           (58,102) 1,413,845 2,003,818
            Group
            Trade and other  -        22,842   - 363,415 796,516 402,939 15,971,676

               receivables   (6,123)  (1,519)  (263)              -  - (1,605,575) (24,504,957)
            Cash and cash    (6,123)  21,323   (263)     363,415
                                                                     738,414  211,209 (6,529,463)
               equivalents
            Trade and other  -        -        -         -           -              - 1,459,306

               payables      -        -        -         -           754 1,086,772 1,243,458

            Company          -        29,117   -         267,523     73,248 2,173,338 15,492,775
            Cash and cash
                             -        (1)      (8,140)   -           (51,693) (1,228,967) (20,365,699)
               equivalents
                             -        29,116   (8,140) 267,523       22,309 2,031,143 (3,629,466)
            2022
            Group            -        -        -         -           -              - 1,395,650
            Trade and other

               receivables
            Cash and cash

               equivalents
            Trade and other

               payables

            Company
            Cash and cash

               equivalents

174
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                     ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                  2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (c) Market risk (continued)

                 (i) Currency risk (continued)

                         Currency risk sensitivity analysis

                         A 10% (2022: 10%) strengthening of the following currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) at the end of the
                         reporting period would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This
                         analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant.

                                         Group      2022           Company        2022
                                    Profit or loss    RM          Profit or loss    RM
                                    2023                          2023

                                      RM                            RM

AUD                                       (465)                -           -               -
EURO                                      1,621           2,213            -               -
GBP                                                       (619)            -               -
HKD                                         (20)       20,332              -               -
RMB                                     27,620           1,695             -               -
SGD                                     56,120       154,368               -               -
USD                                     16,051      (275,839)     110,907         106,069
                                    (496,240)        (97,850)     110,907         106,069
                                    (395,313)

        A 10% (2022: 10%) weakening of the above currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia at the end of the reporting
        period would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the
        basis that all other variables remained constant.

(ii) Interest rate risk

        The Group’s fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in
        interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of changes in cash flows due to changes
        in interest rates. Short-term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.

        Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

        The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly arises from its short-term funds, fixed deposits
        and borrowings and is managed through effective negotiation with financial institutions for best available rates.

                                                                                  175
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                      This is                          Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                Kawan Food Berhad                Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (c) Market risk (continued)
                 (ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
                         Exposure to interest rate risk
                         The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
                         carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:

                                           Group          2022           Company        2022
                                                            RM                            RM
                                       2023                             2023
                                         RM                               RM

            Floating rate instruments  41,014,760         54,460,269    2,077,217       2,012,087
            Financial assets           (3,560,015)         (6,398,772)             -               -
            Financial liabilities

            Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
            Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
            The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
            Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
            Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments

                                       Group                            Company

                                       Profit or loss                   Profit or loss

                                          100 bp              100 bp       100 bp           100 bp
                                       increase           decrease      increase        decrease

                                               RM                  RM           RM               RM

            2023                        311,712           (311,712)     15,787          (15,787)
            Financial assets           (27,056)            27,056              -                 -
            Financial liabilities
                                       413,898            (413,898)     15,292          (15,292)
            2022                       (48,631)              48,631            -                -
            Financial assets
            Financial liabilities

176
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (c) Market risk (continued)

                 (ii) Interest rate risk (continued)

                         Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments (continued)

                         A change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
                         (decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown above. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in
                         particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.

                 (iii) Price risk

                         Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of the financial statements will fluctuate because of
                         changes in market prices (other than currency or interest rate).

                         The Group and the Company are exposed to equity securities price risk arising from the investments held by the
                         Group and the Company which are classified on the statements of financial position as fair value through profit or
                         loss. These securities are listed in Malaysia. The Group and the Company are not exposed to commodity price risk.
                         To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity, the Group and the Company diversify their portfolio.

                         A 5% (2022: 5%) decrease in share price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased profit by RM462,011
                         (2022: RM139,952) for quoted investments classified as fair value through profit or loss. A 5% (2022: 5%) increased
                         in share price would have had equal but opposite effect on equity and profit respectively.

        (d) Fair value of financial instruments

                 (i) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amount are
                         a reasonable approximation of fair value

                         The Group’s financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade
                         and other payables, and loans and borrowings.

                         The carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities are reasonable approximation of fair values, because
                         these are short-term in nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are repriced to market interest rates
                         on or near to the end of the reporting period.

                                                 177
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                    This is                               Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                              Kawan Food Berhad                     Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
                 (ii) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value

                                                                               Level 1     Level 2        Level 3
                                                                                    RM          RM              RM

            2023                                                               9,240,224   -              -
            Group
            Financial assets                                                   40,562,580  -              -
            Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia
            Short-term investments

            Company                                                            1,870,672   -              -
            Financial asset
            Short-term investments

            2022                                                               2,799,036   -              -
            Group
            Financial assets                                                   53,899,555  -              -
            Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia
            Short-term investments

            Company                                                            1,810,259   -              -
            Financial asset
            Short-term investments

            The fair values of these financial assets that are quoted in an active market are determined by reference to the
            quoted closing bid price at the end of the reporting period.

178
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)

                 (iii) Policy of transfer between levels

                         The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
                         circumstances that caused the transfer.

                         Level 1 fair value

                         Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets or
                         liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.

                         Level 2 fair value

                         Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for
                         the financial assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly.

                         Non-derivative financial liabilities

                         Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal
                         and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of the reporting period. In respect
                         of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar
                         liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined by
                         reference to similar borrowing arrangements.

                         Transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

                         There has been no transfer between Level 1 and 2 fair values during the financial year (2022: no transfer in either
                         direction).

                         Level 3 fair value

                         Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the financial assets and liabilities.

                         The following shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as well as the
                         key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.

                         Valuation processes applied by the Group and the Company for Level 3 fair value

                         The Group and the Company use discounted cash flows in respect of the measurement of fair values of financial
                         instruments. The management has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements,
                         including Level 3 fair values.

                                                 179
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                  This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                            Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

34. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

        The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a capital base adequate to safeguard the Group’s ability to
        continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development
        of the business. The directors monitor and are determined to maintain an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
        regulatory requirements.

        The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by
        equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other
        payables, less cash and cash equivalents.

        The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

                                                                          Group      2022
                                                                                       RM
                                                                      2023
                                                                        RM

     Loans and borrowings                                                 3,560,015     6,398,772
     Trade and other payables                                           50,833,424   44,649,288
                                                                        54,393,439    51,048,060
     Less: Cash and cash equivalents                                  (104,301,693)  (98,581,662)
     Net debt                                                         (49,908,254)   (47,533,602)

     Equity attributable to owners of the Company                     417,410,670    398,213,253
     (excluding treasury shares)

     Debt-to-equity ratio                                             -              -

     There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

     Under the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note No. 17/2005, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated
     shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than 25% of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding treasury shares) and such
     shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The Company has complied with this requirement.

     The Group and the Company are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement.

180
Our Commitment to Good         Financial         Other                                ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance           Statements        Information                                             2023

                                                 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                  AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

35. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS                                                      Group    2022
                                                                                        RM
        Capital expenditure commitments                                  2023
        Property, plant and equipment                                      RM
        Authorised but not contracted for
        Contracted but not provided for:                                 16,507,000   16,507,000
                                                                           3,157,515     2,651,110
           Within one year

36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

        The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the directors of the Group and of the Company during
        the financial year are as follows:

                                           Note      Group    2022        Company     2022
                                                                RM                      RM
                                                 2023                    2023
                                                   RM                      RM

Executive directors                              340,000    340,000      340,000      340,000
Fees                                                                               -            -
Salaries and bonuses                             3,285,915  2,841,884              -            -
Defined contribution benefits                                                      -            -
Benefits-in-kind                                 425,732    330,480                -            -
Incentives
Meeting allowances                               68,599       49,350       81,000      54,000
                                                                         421,000      394,000
Non-executive directors                          233,765      -
Fees
Benefits-in-kind                           (a)   81,000       54,000
Meeting allowances
                                                 4,435,011  3,615,714

                                                 415,000     415,000      415,000     415,000
                                                                      -       7,918             -
                                                 7,918
                                                             108,000      157,500     108,000
                                           (a)   157,500    523,000       580,418     523,000
                                                            4,138,714    1,001,418    917,000
                                                 580,418

                                                 5,015,429

                                                                                      181
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                  This is                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance            Kawan Food Berhad          Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)
        The number of directors of the Company whose income falls within the following bands are:

                                   Executive directors                                             Non-executive directors

                                   2023                 2022                                       2023  2022
                                     RM                   RM                                         RM    RM

RM150,000 and below                -                    1                                          2                        3
RM151,001 to RM200,000
RM200,001 to RM500,000             -                    -                                          2                        1
RM500,001 to RM1,000,000
RM1,000,001 and above              -                    -                                          -                        -
Total
                                   2                    2                                          -                        -

                                   2                    1                                          -                        -

                                   4                    4                                          4                        4

(a) Meeting allowances vary from one director to another, depending on the number of committees they sit on and the
        number of meetings attended during the financial year.

37. RELATED PARTIES

        Identity of related parties

        A related party is defined as follows:

        (a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and the Company if that person:

                 (i) has control or joint control over the Company;
                 (ii) has significant influence over the Company; or
                 (iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the Company or of a parent of the Company.

        (b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:

                 (i) the entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and
                         fellow subsidiary is related to the others).

                 (ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a
                         group of which the other entity is a member).

                 (iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
                 (iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third party and the other entity is an associate of the third party.
                 (v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or entity related

                         to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the Company.
                 (vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
                 (vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management

                         personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the Company).
                 (viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services to the

                         Company or to the parent of the Company.

                 The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entity, companies which certain directors
                 have interest and key management personnel.

182
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                   Other                                 ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                  Information                                              2023

                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

37. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)

        Significant related party transactions

        Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under normal trade terms. The significant
        related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the transactions below
        are shown in Notes 14 and 21.

                                                        Group     2022         Company    2022
                                                                    RM                      RM
                                                    2023                      2023
                                                      RM                        RM

Subsidiaries                                        -             -           13,021,188  10,785,593
Dividends income from investment in subsidiaries                              5,160,600   4,026,000
Dividends income from other investments             -             -

Other related party transactions                    36,468,246    31,135,263  -           -
Companies in which directors of the Company have
                                                    1,863,551     1,801,001   -           -
   interest:                                        1,757,713     1,152,599
Sales of goods                                        441,972      385,160    -           -

Companies in which persons related to directors of             -    110,773   -           -
   the Company have interest:                          65,789       70,764
                                                                      11,530  -           -
Sales of goods                                                 -
Purchase of goods                                                             -           -
Rental of office
Rental of plant and machineries                                               -           -
Provision of transportation service
Plaster ceiling and partition works

                                                                                          183
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                               This is                          Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                         Kawan Food Berhad                Review

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

37. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)

                                                    Group          2022           Company       2022
                                                                     RM                           RM
                                                2023                             2023
                                                  RM                               RM

     Key management personnel                    340,000            340,000      340,000        340,000
     Executive directors:                       3,285,915          2,841,884               -              -
                                                                                           -              -
        - fees                                    233,765                     -            -              -
        - remuneration                            425,732           330,480                -              -
        - incentive                                68,599
        - defined contribution plans                                  49,350       81,000        54,000
        - benefits-in-kind                          81,000            54,000     421,000        394,000
        - meeting allowances                    4,435,011           3,615,714

     Other key management personnel:            2,995,495          2,964,670              -               -
        - short-term employee benefits             202,015           325,455              -               -
        - defined contribution plans                         -          121,150           -               -
        - benefits-in-kind                                           3,411,275            -               -
                                                 3,197,510
     Total compensation paid to key management                     7,026,989     421,000        394,000
        personnel                                7,632,521

     Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority and
     responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.

38. COMPARATIVE FIGURES

        The Group has effected certain reclassifications principally to more appropriately reflect the nature of incentives given to its
        customers and the detailed disclosure requirements of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

        The changes in certain comparative amounts to conform to the current year’s financial statements of the Group are as
        follows:

                                                                   As

                                                                   previously

                                                                   reported Reclassification    As restated
                                                                                                             RM
                                                                   RM            RM

     Group                                                         293,231,119   (18,469,244)   274,761,875
     Revenue                                                       47,361,396    (18,469,244)    28,892,152
     Selling and distribution expenses

184
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

39. OTHER INFORMATION

        (a) The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on the Main
                 Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

        (b) The registered office of the Company is located at:

                 12th Floor, Menara Symphony
                 No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
                 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
                 Selangor

        (c) The principal place of business of the Company is located at:

                 Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
                 Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
                 Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
                 42920 Pulau Indah
                 Selangor Darul Ehsan

        (d) The financial statements are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia, which is also the Group’s and the Company’s functional
                 currency.

40. APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 18 April 2024.

                                                 185
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                     This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                               Kawan Food Berhad  Review

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

We, the undersigned, being two of the directors of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do hereby
state that, in the opinion of the directors, the financial statements set out on pages 105-185 are drawn up in accordance
with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company
as at 31 December 2023 and of their financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended on that date.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:

GAN THIAM CHAI		 GAN THIAM HOCK
Director		Director
Selangor
18 April 2024

STATUTORY DECLARATION

Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
I, LEE FUI MENG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
(Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on
pages 105-185 are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

LEE FUI MENG
(MIA no. 31056)
Subscribed and solemnly declared
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur
in the Federal Territory on 18 April 2024
Before me

186
Our Commitment to Good  Financial    Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements   Information                     2023

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Kawan Food Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policies information, as set out on pages
105-185.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

                                                  187
KAWAN FOOD           Kawan           This is                                      Our Strategic
BERHAD               At A Glance     Kawan Food Berhad                            Review

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Key Audit Matters (Continued)

Key audit matter               How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition            The details of our work performed are as follows:

Refer to Note 22 -             • We assessed and evaluated the appropriateness of the design and implementation of
Revenue                           controls over revenue cycle with no exception noted.

Revenue     recognition        • We performed test of operating effectiveness on the relevant controls identified within
                                  the revenue cycle with no exception noted.
is a presumed fraud
                               • We performed substantive testing to verify revenue transactions to respective sales
risk as the Group may             invoices, bill of ladings and acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the transfer of
                                  risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to customers based on selected samples.
be under pressure
                               • We verified the credit notes and sales returns issued subsequent to the year-end date
by external parties               to ascertain whether revenue was recognised in the correct financial period.

(i.e. expectations by          • We assessed cut-off procedures implemented by management to verify revenue
                                  transactions pre and post year-end date and agreed the sales invoices, bill of ladings
shareholders and market           and acknowledged delivery orders that evidenced the transfer of risks and rewards of
                                  ownership of goods and confirm that these transactions were recognised in the correct
analysts) and internal            financial periods.

parties (i.e. performance

of management). This

may lead to potential

misstatement of revenue.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
report and Statement on Risk and Management Internal Controls included in the annual report but does not include the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon, which we obtained prior to the date
of this auditors’ report, and the remaining parts of the annual report, which are expected to be made available to us after
that date.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

When we read the remaining parts of the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we
are required to communicate the matter to the directors of the Company and take appropriate actions in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing.

188
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                     2023

                                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                  To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
        due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
        and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
        higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
        the override of internal control.

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
        the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s
        internal control.

• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
        disclosures made by the directors.

• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
        evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on
        the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
        required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of
        the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
        obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to
        cease to continue as a going concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
        including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying
        transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
        Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
        performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

                                                 189
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                    This is                     Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance              Kawan Food Berhad           Review

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.

RSM Malaysia PLT		                         Yeoh Kian Teck
202206000002 (LLP0030276-LCA) & AF 0768		  03322/08/2023 J
Chartered Accountants		                    Chartered Accountant

Kuala Lumpur

18 April 2024

190
Our Commitment to Good                 Financial                         Other                                ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance                   Statements                        Information                                             2023

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                         Approx.               Approx. Land Issuance        Net Book
                                                                                                                                 Value
 Location/                                 Description/ Tenure of        age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate                 RM
 Title details                             Existing use Lease
                                                                         building Acquisition  Area           of Fitness
* Held under H.S. (D)
    No. 135852, PT129351,                  Factory cum   Leasehold       5 years   12 October   63,079.9 sq.  18 May 2018   95,972,382
    Mukim dan Daerah Klang,                office        interest for                   2011      metres/
    Negeri Selangor,                                     a term of
    with address at Lot 96,                              99 years                              49,404.82 sq.
    Section 4, Phase 2C,                                 expiring on 24                            metres
    Selangor Halal-Hub, Pulau Indah,                     February 2097
    Selangor Darul Ehsan
                                           Factory cum   Leasehold       43 year   28 May      7,337.24 sq.   23 May 2007   4,444,710
* Held under H.S. (D)                      office        interest for               2004         metres/
    No. 98527, Bandar Shah Alam,                         a term of 99
    Daerah Petaling, Negeri Selangor,                    years expiring                        6,417.91 sq.
    with address at Lot 20,                              on 6 August                              metres
    Jalan Pengapit 15/19,                                2074
    40200 Shah Alam,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                   Factory cum   Leasehold       33 years  28 June      4,484 sq.     24 September  1,497,694
                                           office        interest for                1999        metres/            1990
* Held under H.S. (D) 98490,                             a term of 99                          3,149.43 sq.
    P.T. No. 617, Seksyen 16,                            years expiring                          metres
    Bandar Shah Alam,                                    on 20 July
    Negeri Selangor,                                     2094
    with address at Lot 4,
    Jalan Lada Hitam 16/12A,               Factory cum   Leasehold       33 years  25 May       21,796 sq.    7 May 1990    6,204,397
    40000 Shah Alam,                       office        interest for               2005         metres/
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                                 a term of 99                          3,584.91 sq.
                                                         years expiring                           metres
* Held under H.S. (D) 98500                              on 20 July
    for P.T. No. 714, Seksyen 16,                        2094
    Bandar Shah Alam,
    Negeri Selangor,                       Shop          Freehold        23 years  16 May      67.85 sq.      27 March      38,228
    with address at Lot 2A,                apartment                                2003        metres           2003
    Persiaran Kemajuan,                    occupied as
    Seksyen 16, 40000 Shah Alam,           staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Parcel No. 2F-41C
    with address at 41C-2F,
    Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Parcel No. 2B-41D with                   Shop          Freehold        23 years  29 July     67.85 sq.      27 March      35,565
    address at 41D-2B,                     apartment                                2003        metres           2003
    Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,                 occupied as
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,            staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

                                                                                                                            191
KAWAN FOOD              Kawan                             This is                         Our Strategic
BERHAD                  At A Glance                       Kawan Food Berhad               Review

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                    Approx.               Approx. Land Issuance  Net Book
                                                                                                                      Value
 Location/                                  Description/ Tenure of  age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate           RM
 Title details                              Existing use Lease
                                                                    building Acquisition  Area       of Fitness
* Parcel No. 2F-31C with address
    at 31C-2F, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,       Shop          Freehold  23 years  16 May      67.85 sq.  27 March    38,228
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,             apartment                          2003        metres       2003
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                    occupied as
                                            staff hostel

    Held under Master Title H.S. (D)        Shop          Freehold  23 years  29 July     67.85 sq.  27 March    35,565
    56062 PT 59169 in the Mukim of Klang,   apartment                          2003        metres       2003
    District of Klang,                      occupied as
    State of Selangor Darul Ehsan           staff hostel

* Parcel No. 2B-21D with address
    at 21D-2B, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56057 PT
59164 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No.                 Shop          Freehold  22 years 21 February 69.52 sq.   26 October  33,745
    B3/3F with address at 57-3A,            apartment                                                    2004
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     occupied as                       2001        metres
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      staff hostel
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. B4/3F           Shop          Freehold  22 years       21     69.52 sq.  26 October  33,745
    with address at 55-3A,                  apartment                         February     metres        2004
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     occupied as
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      staff hostel                         2001
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67207 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D4/3F           Shop          Freehold  22 years       21     69.52 sq.  26 October  33,745
                                                                              February     metres        2004
with address at 57-3A,                      apartment
                                                                                 2001
Jalan Bendahara 13,                         occupied as

Taman Sri Sentosa,                          staff hostel

Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang, Selangor

Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

192
Our Commitment to Good                          Financial                   Other                                                   ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance                            Statements                  Information                                                                2023

                                                                                                              LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                            Approx.                   Approx. Land Issuance      Net Book
                                                                                                                                      Value
 Location/                                      Description/ Tenure of      age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate                   RM
 Title details                                  Existing use Lease
                                                                            building Acquisition      Area           of Fitness
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D3/3F
    with address at 55-3A,                      Shop          Freehold      22 years 21 February      69.52 sq.      26 October  33,745
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                         apartment                                       2001   metres            2004
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                          occupied as
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,            staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

    Held under Strara Title H.S. (D) 67207      Shop          Freehold      22 years       21         69.52 sq.      26 October  33,745
    Lot No. P.T. No. 65652 in the Mukim Klang,  apartment                             February         metres            2004
    District of Klang,                          occupied as
    State of Selangor Darul Ehsan               staff hostel                             2001

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D2/3F
    with address at 57-3A,
    Jalan Bendahara 13,
    Taman Sri Sentosa,
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor darul Ehsan

** Industrial Land at 13,                       Factory cum Leasehold       13 years  26              40,773.90 sq.  N/A         18,132,691

Kexing Road North, N                            office        interest for            December metres/

antong Economic & Technology                                  a term of               2006            16,000 sq.

Development Area (“NETDA”), China                             50 years                                metres

                                                              expiring on

Held under Lot No. 03-10-(001)-338, Land                      25 December

Registry No. 35.45-92.10                                      2056

* Held under Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
** Held under Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.

                                                                                                                                 193
KAWAN FOOD              Kawan                    This is                           Our Strategic
BERHAD                  At A Glance              Kawan Food Berhad                 Review

ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

as per Record of Depositors as at 29 March 2024

Issued Share Capital		  : 363,436,580 Ordinary Shares (including 13,364,600 Treasury Shares)
Class of Shares		       : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights		         : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS                                     No. of   % of             No. of                     % of
                                                                                         Shares                   Shares
 Size of Shareholdings                           Shareholders Shareholders
                                                                                            6,250                     0.00
Less than 100                                                      355       8.66         717,230                      0.20
100 - 1,000                                                      1,469     35.84       6,961,715                       1.99
1,001 - 10,000                                                    1,641    40.03     15,918,637                       4.55
10,001 - 100,000                                                            12.20   116,175,946                       33.19
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                           500             210,292,202                       60.07
5% and above of issued shares                                        131     3.20  350,071,980                     100.00
Total                                                                  3     0.07
                                                                          100.00
                                                                 4,099

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
as per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 29 March 2024

                                                          Direct                              Indirect

                                                   No. of                                     No. of
                                                 Shares
Name of Substantial Shareholders                                          %(1)     Shares                         %(1)

1. Gan Thiam Chai                                               -               -  126,257,402(2)                 36.07
2. Kwan Sok Kay                                                 -               -  126,257,402(2)                 36.07
3. Gan Thiam Hock                                 22,462,133               6.42
4. GFG (L) Foundation                            126,257,402              36.07      3,028,666(3)                  0.87
5. Nareshchandra Gordhandas Nagrecha                            -               -                                       -
6. VG Trustee Limited                                                                                          -
                                                  62,001,200                                                        17.71
        (as Trustee of the Narvee F’dation)                                         62,001,200(4)
                                                                                                                        -
                                                                          17.71               -

(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 350,071,980 Kawan Shares (excluding 13,364,600 Treasury Shares).
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) by virtue of his/her substantial shareholdings in GFG

         (L) Foundation.
(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,

         Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 462,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam
         Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.87% in the shareholdings of the Company.
(4) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Act by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in Narvee F’dation.

194
Our Commitment to Good          Financial                        Other                                      ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance            Statements                       Information                                                   2023

                                                                       ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                                 as per Record of Depositors as at 29 March 2024

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Register of Directors’ shareholdings as at 29 March 2024

                                                                          Direct         Indirect

                                                                   No. of                No. of
                                                                 Shares
Name of Directors                                                                 %(1)   Shares             %(1)

1. Gan Thiam Chai                                        -                            -  126,257,402(2)     36.07
2. Kwan Sok Kay                                          -                            -  126,257,402(2)     36.07
3. Gan Thiam Hock                           22,462,133                            6.42
4. Gan Ka Bien                                   121,220                          0.03     3,028,666(3)      0.87
5. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                 10,137,028                            2.90                   -        -
6. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor                                -                            -                  -        -
7. Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                           -                            -                  -        -
8. Eugene Hon Kah Weng                                   -                            -                  -        -
                                                                                                         -        -

(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 350,071,980 Kawan Shares (excluding 13,364,600 Treasury Shares).
(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Act by virtue of his/her substantial shareholdings in GFG (L) Foundation.
(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,

         Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 462,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam
         Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.87% in the shareholdings of the Company.

LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                                         No. of         %(1)
as at 29 March 2024                                                                            Shares       36.07

  No. Name of Shareholders                                                               126,257,402          17.71
                                                                                          62,001,200
   1. GFG (L) FOUNDATION                                                                                     6.29
   2. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                        22,033,600           1.86
                                                                                           6,500,000
        EXEMPT AN FOR VG TRUSTEE LIMITED (NARVEE F’DATION)                                                    1.67
   3. GAN THIAM HOCK                                                                        5,834,100          1.41
  4. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                                                   4,930,000
                                                                                                              1.39
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM                            4,865,900
  5. KONG POH YIN                                                                                             1.35
  6. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD                                                   4,707,933         1.33
                                                                                           4,640,000
        PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND                                       1.23
   7. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD                                                           4,299,600

        PUBLIC SMALLCAP FUND
  8. KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN)
  9. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD

        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHUNG-CHEN (CCTS)
  10. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD

        PUBLIC STRATEGIC SMALLCAP FUND

                                                                                                            195
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan                                This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance                          Kawan Food Berhad  Review

ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

as per Record of Depositors as at 29 March 2024

No. Name of Shareholders                                              No. of                                            %(1)
                                                                    Shares                                           0.95
                                                                                                                     0.95
11. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                               3,330,000                                    0.88
      EXEMPT AN FOR UOB KAY HIAN PTE LTD (A/C CLIENTS)                   3,317,028                                   0.85
                                                                        3,072,500                                     0.76
12. LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM                                            2,970,466                                     0.76
                                                                        2,654,100                                     0.75
13. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                  2,649,000                                     0.70
      EXEMPT AN FOR UBS AG SINGAPORE (FOREIGN)                          2,616,000                                     0.62
                                                                        2,437,533                                    0.60
14. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                        2,168,382                                   0.60
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN, TSAI-TIEN (CCTS)               2,112,600                                   0.57
                                                                        2,096,682                                     0.57
15. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD                                          2,000,000                                    0.54
      PUBLIC ISLAMIC OPPORTUNITIES FUND                                  1,987,400                                   0.49
                                                                          1,871,200                                  0.43
16. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                        1,726,000                                    0.42
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHIANG PETER (CCTS)                1,486,600                                     0.41
                                                                        1,464,366                                     0.37
17. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.             1,437,966                                    0.33
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOONG KAH YIN                        1,293,100                                 82.86
                                                                         1,149,300
18. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD                                      289,909,958
      PUBLIC ISLAMIC GROWTH BALANCED FUND

19. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR SHAH KAMAL KANT ZAVERCHAND

20. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
      ETIQA LIFE INSURANCE BERHAD (PREM EQUITY)

21. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHIA-LUNG (CCTS)

22. KONG POH YIN

23. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
      PUBLIC SELECT TREASURES EQUITY FUND

24. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
      PUBLIC ISLAMIC EMERGING OPPORTUNITIES FUND

25. AMANAH RAYA BERHAD
      KUMPULAN WANG BERSAMA

26. HLIB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
      PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YAP KOK WENG

27. LAM SAW KUAN

28. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
      PB SMALLCAP GROWTH FUND

29. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
      MAYBANK TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR DANA MAKMUR PHEIM (211901)

30. GAN THIAM CHUAN

      Total

(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 350,071,980 Kawan Shares (excluding 13,364,600 Treasury Shares).

196
Our Commitment to Good   Financial                                   Other                         ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance     Statements                                  Information                                      2023

NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

Notice is hereby given that the Twentieth Annual General Meeting ("20th AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or
“the Company”) will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming and online voting via Remote Participation and
Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities hosted at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (Meeting platform) at 12th Floor, Menara
Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia (“Broadcast
Venue”) on Wednesday, 26 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. for the following purposes:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December                 Please Refer To
        2023 together with the Reports of the Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.                    Explanatory Note 1

2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of          Ordinary Resolution 1
        up to RM1,253,000.00 for the period from 27 June 2024 until the conclusion of the Twenty-
        First AGM.

3. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring under Clause 115(1) of the Constitution
        of the Company:

(i) Gan Thiam Chai                                                                                 Ordinary Resolution 2

(ii) Gan Ka Bien                                                                                   Ordinary Resolution 3

(iii) Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                                                                     Ordinary Resolution 4

4. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the                  Ordinary Resolution 5
        Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:

5. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions
        of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the following related parties (“Proposed Renewal of
        Shareholders’ Mandate”):

(i) Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited                                          Ordinary Resolution 6

(ii) MH Delight Sdn Bhd                                                                            Ordinary Resolution 7

(iii) Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd                                                                  Ordinary Resolution 8

(Collectively referred to as “Related Parties”)

“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company, to enter and give effect to
the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (hereinafter to
be referred to as “Recurrent Transactions”) with the above Related Parties as stated in
Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024 which are necessary for
the Company’s day-to-day operations subject further to the following:

(i) the Recurrent Transactions contemplated are in the ordinary course of business
        and on terms which are not more favourable to Related Parties than those generally
        available to the public, and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders;

                                                                                                   197
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad      Review

NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        (ii) the approval is subject to annual renewal and shall only continue to be in force until:     Ordinary Resolution 9

                 (a) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the forthcoming AGM
                         of the Company at which the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate is
                         approved, at which time it will lapse unless by a resolution passed at the AGM
                         the mandate is again renewed;

                 (b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after
                         the date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies
                         Act 2016 (“Act”) (but shall not extend to such extensions as may be allowed
                         pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or

                 (c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general meeting,

                 whichever is the earlier; and

        (iii) the disclosure of the breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent Transactions
                 conducted pursuant to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate in the
                 Annual Report of the Company based on the following information:

                 (a) the type of Recurrent Transactions entered into; and

                 (b) the names of the Related Parties involved in each type of the Recurrent
                         Transactions entered into and their relationship with the Company.

        AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and
        things to give full effect to the Recurrent Transactions contemplated and/or authorised
        by this resolution, as the Directors of the Company, in their absolute discretion, deem fit.”

6. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares.

        “THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby authorised
        to allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of the next AGM
        of the Company upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors
        may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares
        to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares
        of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at the time of issue, subject to the
        Constitution of the Company and approval of all the relevant regulatory bodies being
        obtained for such allotment and issue.

        THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
        of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
        rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to
        the existing issued Kawan shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this
        mandate.

        AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in
        all respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall not
        be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that
        which may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new shares.”

198
Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                                             ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                                          2023

                                    NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.                 Ordinary Resolution 10

        “THAT subject to the Act, the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market Listing
        Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the
        approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any), the
        Company be and is hereby authorised to utilise an amount not exceeding the audited
        retained profits as at 31 December 2023 to purchase such amount of ordinary shares in
        the Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority”) as may be determined
        by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such
        terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of
        the Company provided that the aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held
        pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
        issued shares of the Company.

        THAT an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained profits be allocated by the
        Company for the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority.

        THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company to decide at
        their absolute discretion to either retain the shares so purchased as treasury shares
        (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to cancel the shares so purchased and if
        retained as treasury shares, may resell the treasury shares and/or to distribute them as
        share dividend and/or subsequently cancel them.

        THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately upon the
        passing of this resolution and will expire at:

        (i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, at which time the said authority
                 will lapse unless by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting of the
                 Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;

        (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required
                 by law to be held; or

        (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in a
                 general meeting;

        whichever occurs first, but not so as to prejudice the completion of the purchase(s) by
        the Company before the aforesaid expiry date and in any event, in accordance with
        the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa Securities and/or any other relevant
        governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any).

        AND THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to take all steps necessary to
        implement, complete and do all such acts and things (including executing all such
        documents as may be required) as they may consider expedient or necessary to give
        effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority as may be agreed or
        allowed by any relevant governmental and/or regulatory authority.”

8. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.

                                                                                                      199
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan              This is            Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance        Kawan Food Berhad  Review

NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

BY ORDER OF THE BOARD

TAI YIT CHAN (MAICSA 7009143)
SSM PC No.: 202008001023

TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513)
SSM PC No.: 202008001075

Company Secretaries
Selangor Darul Ehsan

Date: 30 April 2024

EXPLANATORY NOTES:

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements

        Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
        approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for
        voting.

2. Ordinary Resolutions 2, 3 & 4 - Re-election of Directors

        Gan Thiam Chai, Gan Ka Bien and Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim who retire in accordance with Clause 115(1) of the
        Constitution (collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”), being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.

        For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Retiring Directors to stand for re-election at this 20th AGM and in line
        with Practice 5.1 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, the Nominating Committee (“NC”) has reviewed and
        assessed each of the Retiring Directors from the annual assessment and evaluation of the Board, Board Committees,
        Independent Directors and individual Directors for the financial year under review.

        The NC had recommended that, the re-election of the Retiring Directors to be based on the following:

        (i) satisfactory performance and have met Board’s expectation in discharging their duties and responsibilities with
                 due care and in a commendable manner;

        (ii) met the fit and proper criteria in discharging their roles as directors of the Company;

        (iii) level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Directors; and

        (iv) their ability to act in the best interest of the Company in decision-making and developing the Group’s business
                 strategies.

        The Board had endorsed the recommendation of the NC on the re-election of the Retiring Directors.

        The profiles of the Retiring Directors are set out in the Board of Directors’ Profiles of the Annual Report 2023 of the
        Company.
200
    Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other                                               ANNUAL REPORT
    Corporate Governance    Statements  Information                                                            2023

                                        NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

3. Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 - Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions
        of a Revenue or Trading Nature

        The Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8 proposed, if passed, will empower the Directors from the date of the 20th AGM, to deal
        with the related party transactions involving recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are necessary
        for the Company’s day-to-day operations. These recurrent related party transactions are in the ordinary course of
        business and are on terms not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and
        not to the detriment of the minority shareholders.

        This authority unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company and subject
        always to provision (ii) of the resolution.

        For further information on Ordinary Resolutions 6, 7 & 8, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024
        accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

4. Ordinary Resolution 9 - Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares

        The Ordinary Resolution 9 proposed under item 6 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general
        mandate for issuance of shares by the Company under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will
        provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company
        up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the
        working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved
        in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority,
        unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM.

        At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility
        permitted to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities
        without making a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the
        general mandate is sought, the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.

        The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the
        previous AGM.

5. Ordinary Resolution 10 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares

        The proposed Ordinary Resolution 10, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to take all such steps
        as are necessary or expedient to implement, finalise, complete and/or to effect the purchase(s) of shares by the
        Company as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company. The authority will, unless
        revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next AGM of
        the Company or the expiry of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required by law to be held.

        For further information on Ordinary Resolution 10, please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024
        accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.

Notes:

1.      For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia

        Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 19 June 2024. Only a member whose name

        appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.

2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
         authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
         shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

                                                                                            201
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan            This is                                                    Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance      Kawan Food Berhad                                          Review

NOTICE OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
         securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
         the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
         authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
         with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.

5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
         by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
         which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.

     a. In hard copy form

     In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s
     office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
     Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

     b. By electronic means

     The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
     Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement. Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom
     at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.

6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.

7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m.

8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
         the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
         Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
         the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
         notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.

9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
         of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
         Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
         executed in the following manner:

     a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
              under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

     b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
              affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:

     i.     at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or

     ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
              incorporated.

10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out in the notice of
         any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.

Personal data privacy:

By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/
or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s
personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its
agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and
compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof),
and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines
(collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect
of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.

202
Our Commitment to Good      Financial                              Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance        Statements                             Information                     2023

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

Day and Date  : Wednesday, 26 June 2024

Time          : 10.30 a.m.

Meeting Platform : https://investor.boardroomlimited.com

Broadcast Venue : 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,

		 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia

Mode of       : i. Shareholders may type their questions in the messaging box at any time during the live

Communication			 streaming of the AGM via the meeting platform.

		 ii. Submit questions in advance on the 20th AGM resolutions and Annual Report 2023 by logging

			 into the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com

			 latest by Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m.

		 iii. Email questions to info@kawanfood.com no later than 10.30 a.m. on Monday, 24 June 2024.

1. Virtual Meeting

      Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the Company”) will leverage on technology to facilitate communication and
      engagement with shareholders by conducting the 20th AGM on a virtual basis through live streaming and online
      voting via the Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities in accordance with the Guidance Note
      and Frequent Asked Questions on the Conduct of General Meetings for listed issuers and all its subsequent revisions
      issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia. This is also in line with Practice 13.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
      Governance which recommends that listed companies leverage on technology to facilitate remote shareholders’
      participation at general meetings.

      The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
      requires the Chairperson of the Meeting to be present at the main venue of the Meeting. Therefore, NO SHAREHOLDERS/
      PROXIES/ CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES/ATTORNEYS shall be physically present nor admitted at the broadcast venue on
      the day of the Meeting.

      Kindly ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and/or vote at the Meeting.
      Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the Meeting is maintained. The quality
      of the live webcast as well as for electronic voting (“e-Voting”) is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the
      internet connection of the remote participant.

2. Entitlement to Participate and Vote

      Only shareholders whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as of 19 June 2024 (“General Meeting Record of
      Depositors”) shall be entitled to participate and/or vote at the 20th AGM via RPEV facilities or appoint proxy(ies) or in
      case of a corporation to appoint corporate representative(s) to participate and/or vote on his/her/their behalf by
      returning the duly executed Form(s) of Proxy.

3. FORM(S) OF PROXY

      If you are unable to attend and participate at the 20th AGM, you are encouraged to appoint a proxy or the Chairman
      of the 20th AGM as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Form(s) of Proxy in accordance with the notes
      and instructions printed therein.

      Please ensure that the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy is/are deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar office not less
      than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 20th AGM i.e. latest by Monday, 24 June 2024 at
      10.30 a.m.

      Alternatively, you may lodge your Form(s) of Proxy electronically through the BSIP at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
      com (Kindly refer to item 7 below).

      The Form(s) of Proxy must be received not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
      20th AGM i.e. latest by Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. Details of our Share Registrar can be found in item 11 below.

                                                                                                 203
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                   Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                         Review

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

4. CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE

        For corporate shareholder who has appointed a representative(s) or attorney(s) to participate in the 20th AGM, please
        deposit the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy, Certificate of Appointment or Power of Attorney, as the case may be, by hand
        or post to our Share Registrar not later than Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. Details of our Share Registrar can be
        found in item 11 below.

        Upon verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, an email containing the username and password
        will be sent to the corporate representative(s) or attorney(s) by our Share Registrar. Please note that only one (1) user
        name will be provided to each corporate representative(s) or attorney(s).

5. REVOCATION OF PROXY

        If you have submitted your Form(s) of Proxy prior to the 20th AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person
        as your proxy(ies) or wish to participate in the 20th AGM yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.
        com or login to BSIP at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (as the case maybe) to revoke the earlier appointed
        proxy(ies) not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the 20th AGM. Upon revocation, the proxy(ies) appointed by you
        previously will not be allowed to participate in the 20th AGM. In such event, you should notify your previous proxy(ies)
        accordingly.

6. VOTING PROCEDURE

        Pursuant to Clause 96 of the Constitution of the Company and Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements
        of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, voting at the 20th AGM will be conducted by poll. The Company has appointed our
        Share Registrar as the Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of e-Voting and SKY Corporate Services Sdn Bhd
        as the Independent Scrutineer to verify the results of the poll.

        The e-Voting session will commence from the start of the 20th AGM at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday, 26 June 2024 or such
        other time as announced by the Chairman, and will continue until the time declared by the Chairman as the end of the
        e-Voting session.

7. REGISTRATION AND PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION AND SUBMISSION OF ePROXY FORM

        The RPEV facilities are available to (i) individual shareholders; (ii) corporate shareholders; (iii) authorised nominees;
        and (iv) exempt authorised nominees. You shall use the RPEV facilities to participate and vote remotely at the 20th AGM.
        You will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, pose questions and submit your votes in real-time whilst the
        Meeting is in progress.

204
Our Commitment to Good     Financial                    Other        ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance       Statements                   Information                     2023

                                                                        ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

                                       For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

Kindly follow the steps below to register your participation as a shareholder or appoint proxy(ies) for the 20th AGM:

   BEFORE THE 20TH AGM DAY

   Step 1 : Register Online with BSIP

   [Note: This is a one-time registration. If you have already signed up with BSIP, you are not required to register.
              You may proceed to Step 2.]

   (Only for first time BSIP users)
   a. Open an internet browser. Latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge or Opera are recommended.
   b. Go to BSIP website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.

Individual Account                                      Corporate Account
(For Shareholder & Proxy)                               (For Representative of Corporate Holder or

                                                           Authorised Nominees)

• Click Register to sign up for a user account and      • Click Register to sign up for a user account and
     select the correct account type “Sign up as             select the correct account type “Sign up as
     Individual”.                                            Corporate Holder”.

• Complete the registration with all required           • Complete the registration by providing all the
     information. Upload and attach your MyKad (front        required information. Upload and attach your
     and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format.       MyKad (front and back) or Passport in JPEG,
                                                             PNG or PDF format, along with the completed
• Click Sign Up.                                             authorization letter.

[Note: Please ensure that you sign-up for Individual    • Click Sign Up.
          Account if you are an appointed proxy to
          attend the meeting]                           [Note: If you are appointed as the authorised
                                                                  representatives for more than one (1) company,
                                                                  kindly click the home button and select
                                                                  “Edit Profile” in order to add your representation
                                                                  after your BSIP account has been approved.]

c. You will receive an email from Boardroom for email address verification. Click “Verify Email Address” from the email
        received to continue with the registration process.

d. Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP for verification of mobile number. Click “Request OTP
        Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to enter the OTP code for verification
        and click “Enter” to complete the registration process.

e. Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be pending for final verification.
f. An e-mail will be sent to you within one (1) business day informing on the approval of your BSIP account. Once account

        registration completed, you can login at BSIP at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com with the email address and
        password that you have provided during registration to proceed with the next step.

                                                                                                                      205
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                   Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                         Review

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

BEFORE THE 20TH AGM DAY

Step 2 : Submit Request for RPEV (applicable for individual account only)

The registration for RPEV will open from Tuesday, 30 April 2024 at 10.30 a.m. until the day of the 20th AGM on Wednesday,
26 June 2024.

For Individual account only
a. Open an internet browser. Latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge or Opera are recommended.
b. Go to BSIP website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
c. Login your BSIP account with your registered email address and password.

     [Note: If you do not have an account with BSIP, please sign-up/register with BSIP for free - refer to process
     “Step 1: Register Online with BSIP” above.]
d. Click “Meeting Event” and select “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD 20th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the list of companies
     and click “Enter”.
e. Go to “VIRTUAL” and click on “Register for RPEV”.
f. Check the box to register for RPEV and enter your 9 digits CDS account number.
g. Read and check the box to accept the Terms & Conditions, then click “Register”.
h. You will receive a notification that your RPEV registration has been received and pending verification.
i. Upon system verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 19 June 2024 you will receive an email
     from Boardroom notifying you whether your registration has been approved or rejected.

206
Our Commitment to Good  Financial                        Other                ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance    Statements                       Information                             2023

                                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

                                     For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

APPOINTMENT OF PROXY

If Members who wish to submit their Proxy Form electronically via BSIP, please refer to the procedures for electronic lodgement
of Proxy Form as follows:

For Individual Shareholders, Corporate Shareholders
a. Open an internet browser. Latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge or Opera are recommended.
b. Go to BSIP website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
c. Login your BSIP account with your registered email address and password.

     [Note: If you do not have an account with BSIP, please sign-up/register with BSIP for free - refer to process “Step 1:
     Register Online with BSIP” above.]
d. Click “Meeting Event” and select “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD 20th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from the list of companies
     and click “Enter”.

By Shareholder and Corporate Holder                      By Nominees Company

• Select the Company that you are representing           • Select the Nominees Company that you are
   - for Corporate Account user only.                       representing.

• Go to “PROXY” and click on “Submit eProxy Form”.       • Go to “PROXY” and click on “Submit eProxy Form”.

• Click on “Submit eProxy Form”                          • Click on “Download Excel Template” to download.

• Enter your 9 digits CDS account number and number      • Insert the appointment of proxy/proxies for each
   of securities held.                                      CDS account with the necessary data and voting
                                                            instructions in the downloaded excel file template.
• Select your proxy/proxies appointment – either the        Ensure inserted data is correct and orderly.
   Chairman of the meeting or individual named proxy/
   proxies.                                              • Proceed to upload the duly completed excel file.

• Read and accept the Terms and Conditions and click     • Review and confirm your proxy/proxies appointment
   “Next”.                                                  and click “Submit”.

• Enter the required particulars of your proxy/proxies.  • Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.

• Indicate your voting instructions for each Resolution
   – FOR, AGAINST, ABSTAIN or DISCRETIONARY. If
   DISCRETIONARY is selected, your proxy/proxies will
   decide on your votes during poll at the meeting.

• Review and confirm your proxy/proxies appointment
   and click “Submit”.

• Download or print the eProxy Form as
   acknowledgement.

Please note that the closing date and time to submit your proxy/proxies form is by Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m. (48
hours before the AGM)

                                                                                                                  207
KAWAN FOOD  Kawan        This is                                   Our Strategic
BERHAD      At A Glance  Kawan Food Berhad                         Review

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

ON THE DAY OF THE AGM

Step 3 : Login to Boardroom Meeting Portal

a. Open an internet browser. Latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge or Opera are recommended.
b. Go to BSIP website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
c. Login your BSIP account with your registered email address and password.

[Note: If you do not have an account with BSIP, please sign-up/register with BSIP for free - refer to process “Step 1: Register
Online with BSIP” above.]

d. Meeting platform will be made available at any time from 9:30 a.m. i.e. one hour before the commencement of the AGM at
     10:30 a.m. on 26 June 2024.

e. Click into “Meeting Event” and go to “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD 20TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” and then click “Join Live
     Meeting” to join the proceedings of the AGM remotely.

If shareholders have any question for the Chairman/Board/Management, they may use the Messaging window facility to
submit their questions during the meeting. The Messaging window facility will open one (1) hour before the AGM which is from
9:30 a.m. on 26 June 2024.
f. Once the voting has opened, click on the voting icon. The resolution and voting choices will be displayed.
g. To vote, please select your voting direction from the options shown on screen. A confirmation message will appear to

     show your vote has been received.
h. To change your vote, re-select another direction. If you wish to cancel your vote, please select Cancel.

Important Notes:
a. The quality of the connectivity to the Virtual Meeting Portal for live webcast as well as for remote online voting is

     dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connection available at the location of the remote users.
b. Recommended requirement for live webcast:

     (i) Browser: Latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari or Opera.
     (ii) Bandwidth: Minimum 9 Mbps stable speed for High Definition (HD) High Quality video quality or 12 Mbps for Extra HD

            (EHD) video quality.
     (iii) Device with working and good quality speakers.
c. You may not be able to gain access to the AGM via the RPEV facilities if your connecting device is on network with firewall
     and other security filtration. Seek onsite IT/technical support if required.

Entitlement to Participate and Vote

• Only shareholders whose names appear on the Record of Depisitors as at 19 June 2024 shall be eligible to participate at
     the AGM.

• If a shareholder is unable to participate at the AGM, he/she may appoint proxy/proxies, including the Chairman, to
     participate and vote on his/her behalf.

• If a shareholder wishes to participate in the AGM, they must not submit a Proxy Form. A shareholder will not be allowed to
     participate in the meeting if they have appointed proxy/proxies.

208
Our Commitment to Good        Financial              Other                      ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Governance          Statements             Information                                   2023

                                                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

                                                     For the 20th Annual General Meeting (“20th AGM” or The “MEETING”)

8. SUBMISSION OF QUESTION(S)

Prior to the 20th AGM
Submit question(s) in relation to the agenda items of the 20th AGM and Annual Report 2023 by logging in to the BSIP at https://
investor.boardroomlimited.com using the same user ID and password provided in Step 1 latest by Monday, 24 June 2024 at
10.30 a.m. Click ‘Submit Questions’ after selecting “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD 20th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from ‘Meeting Event'.

During the 20th AGM
Shareholders may also submit question(s) via the messaging box at any time during the live streaming of the 20th AGM until
such time as the Chairman decides.

The Chairman/Board/Management will endeavor to provide responses to the questions submitted/posed during the 20th AGM
session. However, if the responses could not be provided during the 20th AGM due to time constraints, they will be published in
the minutes of the 20th AGM of the Company which will be published on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.

9. GIFT POLICY

There will be NO DISTRIBUTION of door gifts or e-vouchers for shareholders/proxies who participate in the Meeting.

10. NO RECORDING OR PHOTOGRAPHY

No recording or photography of the live streaming of the 20th AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission
of the Company.

11. ENQUIRIES RELATING TO THE MEETING

If you have any enquiries, please contact our Share Registrar during office hours from Monday to Friday (8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.)
(except weekend and public holidays) as set out below:

Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd

Address         : 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim

			 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia

General line : 603-7890 4700 (Helpdesk)

Fax number : 603-7890 4670

Email		         : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com

                                                                                                                    209
This page has been intentionally left blank.
       KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                            No. of ordinary shares held CDS account no. of holder

       http://www.kawanfood.com
       Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)

       (Incorporated in Malaysia)

Proxy Form

I/We,                                                      (name of shareholder as per NRIC/Passport, in capital letters)

NRIC No./ Passport No./Registration No.                                       Tel:                   of

                                                                                                                    (full address)

being a *member/members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD hereby appoint(s):-

Full Name                                 NRIC No./Passport No.                                     Proportion of Shareholdings
Email Address                             Contact No.
                                                                                                     No. of Shares                 %

* and/ or (delete as appropriate)         NRIC No./Passport No.                                     Proportion of Shareholdings
 Full Name                                Contact No.
                                                                                                     No. of Shares                 %
 Email Address

or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to attend and vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the
Twentieth Annual General Meeting ("20th AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad ("Kawan" or "the Company") to be conducted on
a virtual basis through live streaming and online voting via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting facilities hosted at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (Meeting platform) at 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Wednesday, 26 June
2024 at 10.30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.

My/our proxy/proxies is/are to vote as indicated below.

Item Agenda
No.

1.     To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 together with the Reports of the

       Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.

                                                                                                     Resolutions For Against

2.     To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of up to  Ordinary

       RM1,253,000.00 for the period from 27 June 2024 until the conclusion of the Twenty-First AGM. Resolution 1

3.     To re-elect Gan Thiam Chai who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s          Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 2
       Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.

4.     To re-elect Gan Ka Bien who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s             Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 3
       Constitution and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.

5.     To re-elect Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the          Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 4
       Company’s Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.

6.     To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to   Ordinary

       fix their remuneration.                                                                       Resolution 5

Special Business

7.     Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited.         Resolution 6

8.     Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with MH Delight Sdn Bhd.                                            Resolution 7

9.     Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd.                                   Resolution 8

10.    Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to allot and     Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 9
       issue shares.

11.    Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.               Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 10

(Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate box against the resolutions on how you wish your proxy to vote. The proxy is to vote on the
resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting as you have indicated. If no specific instruction as to voting is given, this form will be taken to
authorise the proxy to vote at his/her discretion.)
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
* if you wish to appoint other person(s) to be your proxy/proxies, kindly delete the words “the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him/her”

      and insert the name(s) of the person(s) desired.

Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder

Date:

Notes:

1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
      Depository Sdn Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 19 June 2024. Only a member whose name
      appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.

2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
      authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
      shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
      securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
      the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
      authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
      with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.

5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
      by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
      which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.

      a. In hard copy form
            In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s office,
            Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
            Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

      b. By electronic means
            The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
            https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement.
            Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.

6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.

7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 24 June 2024 at 10.30 a.m.

8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
      the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
      Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
      the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
      notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.

9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
      of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
      Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
      executed in the following manner:
      a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
            under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
      b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
            affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
            i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
            ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
                  incorporated.

10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
      in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.

Personal Data Privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data
privacy terms set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 30 April 2024.
Fold This Flap For Sealing

2nd Fold Here                                                                    AFFIX
                                                                                STAMP
                                 KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
                                      Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
                                 c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
                                      Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)
                                 11th Floor, Menara Symphony
                                 No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
                                 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
                                 Selangor Darul Ehsan
                                 Malaysia

1st Fold Here
This page has been intentionally left blank.
                               WWW.KAWANFOOD.COM

KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
200401001942 (640445-V)
Tel : +603 3099 1188
Fax : +603 3099 1028
Sales & Marketing : +603 5511 8388
Email : info@kawanfood.com
Lot 12935, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19,
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C 42920
Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia.
