KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD                                                             AT

                                                            7

                         6                           10        5     9
    3                          11

                                                                        8

                            4                            2        1

54
Kawan At            This is Kawan         Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial              Other
A Glance            Food Berhad           Review         Corporate Governance    Statements             Information

A GLANCE

The Board, under the leadership of the Chairman, is responsible
for determining the overall strategy of the Group and providing
oversight of the senior management.

1 LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM                               7 ABDUL RAZAK BIN SHAKOR

      Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman                    Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

           Board                                                      Board

2 GAN THIAM CHAI                                         8 GAN KA OOI, AMY

      Chairman Emeritus and Acting                              Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
      Group Managing Director
                                                                      Board
            Board
                                                         9 GAN KA HUI
3 GAN KA BIEN
                                                                Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
      Executive Director
                                                                      Board
            Board
                                                         10 GAN MENG HOI, DEREK
4 DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN NIK DAUD
                                                                Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
      Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                                      Board
         Board  AC        NC  RC
                                                         11 NEEL NARESH NAGRECHA
5 EUGENE HON KAH WENG
                                                                Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
      Independent Non-Executive Director
                                                                      Board

         Board  AC        NC  RC

6 NOOR ALINA BINTI MOHAMAD FAIZ

      Independent Non-Executive Director

         Board  AC        NC  RC

Legend:   Board           Chairman  Member

                                                                                                                     55
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                           ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                               69           Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim (“Mr. David Lim”) was appointed
                                            to the Board on 21 October 2015. He was the Chairman of the
    LIM HUN SOON@                           Audit Committee, a member of Remuneration Committee and
                                            Nominating Committee of the Company. On 16 October 2024, he
    DAVID LIM                               was re-designated from Independent Non-Executive Director to
                                            Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, and
    Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman  ceased as Chairman of Audit Committee, member of Nominating
                                            Committee and Remuneration Committee.
    Date of Appointment:
    21 October 2015                         Mr. David Lim graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics
                                            from the University of Leeds in 1978 and subsequently joined Peat
    Board Meeting         7/7               Marwick Mitchell (now known as KPMG) in the United Kingdom
                                            (“UK”) in 1978. He qualified as a member of the Institute of Taxation,
                                            UK in 1981 and as a Chartered Accountant in England and Wales
                                            in 1982. He returned to Malaysia in 1982 to continue his service
                                            with KPMG, and was admitted as a member of the Malaysian
                                            Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) and the Malaysian Association
                                            of Certified Public Accountants (now known as the Malaysian
                                            Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”)) in 1982 and
                                            1984 respectively.

                                            Mr. David Lim had an extensive career serving as an Auditor in
                                            KPMG, spanning thirty-three (33) years. During his career with
                                            KPMG, he was admitted as Partner of the firm in 1990 and served
                                            in the Management Committee of the firm from 1997 to 2001 and
                                            in KPMG’s Partnership Supervisory Council from 2002 to 2010. He
                                            was also the Asian Anchor Practice representative for Marketing
                                            from 2000 to 2001, in which role he gained extensive and insightful
                                            knowledge from KPMG Global counterparts worldwide.

                                            In 2006, he was tasked to start up the Audit Committee Institute,
                                            Malaysia, which is a virtual worldwide initiative sponsored by KPMG
                                            to assist independent directors in enhancing their awareness
                                            and ability to implement effective board processes. Mr. David Lim
                                            actively served as an examiner for Company Law examinations
                                            conducted by the MICPA for over a period of ten (10) years. He
                                            was the Chairman of the MICPA Code of Ethics Committee and a
                                            member of the MIA Code of Ethics Committee, both from 2002 to
                                            2004. He retired from KPMG in 2011.

                                            In 2013, he was appointed as a Council member of The Institute
                                            of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales (“ICAEW”). This
                                            was the first time that ICAEW, in its illustrious history had granted
                                            Malaysia a seat in the Council. The position was for a term of two
                                            (2) years till 2015. He was reappointed for a further two terms till
                                            March 2019 (being the maximum permitted tenure).

                                            Mr. David Lim serves on the Board of several public listed
                                            companies, including Malaysian Rating Corporation Berhad as
                                            an Independent Non-Executive Director, having been recently
                                            appointed in March 2025. He is also the Independent Non-
                                            Executive Chairman of TSA Group Berhad and Press Metal
                                            Aluminium Holdings Berhad. Additionally, he holds directorships
                                            in Public Investment Bank Berhad and Rockwills Trustee Berhad,
                                            where he serves as the Independent Non-Executive Chairman.

                                            Mr. David Lim does not have any family relationship with any
                                            Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He attended
                                            all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended
                                            31 December 2024.

56
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
                                                                                    PROFILES

                                        Gan Thiam Chai (“Mr. T.C. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on

                                        1 June 2005 and was the Executive Chairman since 1 March 2010.

                                        Following his retirement from the Board on 16 October 2024, he

                                        was bestowed the title of Chairman Emeritus and stayed on as

                                        Adviser to provide guidance to support the continued growth of

                                    71  Kawan Food Berhad and its Group of Companies. Subsequently,

                                        he was appointed as Acting Group Managing Director of the

                                        Company on 9 April 2025 to facilitate leadership continuity. He

                                        will assume this role while continuing as Chairman Emeritus of

                                        the Company.

                                        Mr. T.C. Gan has accumulated more than 30 years of experience
                                        in the food processing industry. After leaving school in 1971, he
                                        joined Behn Meyer Industries Sdn. Bhd. as a Technical Assistant.
                                        He left the company in 1976 and set up Kian Guan Trading Co.
                                        in 1977. In 1984, he founded Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
                                        (“KFM”). The growth of KFM from small business to an award-
                                        winning enterprise is attributable to his efforts.

                                        His business acumen and sound technical knowledge in the food
                                        industry is an invaluable asset to the Group. He is responsible
                                        for the overall business planning and development, product
                                        research and development, transformation and modernisation
                                        of food production process through automation, formulation of
                                        companies’ strategic plans and policies.

                                        Mr. T.C. Gan is the husband of Madam Kwan Sok Kay and the
                                        brother of Mr. Gan Thiam Hock. Both have served as Executive
                                        Directors in the past and remain substantial shareholders of
                                        the Company. Mr. T.C. Gan is the father of Ms. Gan Ka Bien, the
                                        Executive Director, and Ms. Gan Ka Hui and Ms. Gan Ka Ooi, the
                                        Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.

                                        He does not hold any directorship in other public companies or
                                        listed issuers. He attended all five (5) Board Meetings until his
                                        retirement on 16 October 2024.

GAN THIAM CHAI

Chairman Emeritus And Acting Group
Managing Director

Date of Appointment:
9 April 2025

Board Meeting            5/5

                                                                                         57
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                               44  Gan Ka Bien (“Ms. K.B. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on
                                   24 November 2020. She has over 15 years of experience in
    GAN KA BIEN                    marketing.

    Executive Director             Ms. K.B. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Business from the
                                   University of Technology in Sydney, Australia in 2002. She also
                                   obtained a Diploma in Marketing Research from Marketing
                                   Research Society of Australia. In 2017, she becomes a licensed
                                   Master Practitioner of Neuro-Linguistic Programming. In 2022,
                                   she was recognized as a Certified Sustainability Reporting
                                   Specialist (CSRS) by the Institute of Certified Sustainability
                                   Practitioners.

                                   In 2003, Ms. K.B. Gan started her career as a Business Manager
                                   with Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd (“KFM”). She was
                                   involved in promoting products to overseas and domestic
                                   markets. She was subsequently promoted as a Senior Business
                                   Manager of KFM in 2012, during which she has success in
                                   launching multiple products.

                                   In 2019, Ms. K.B. Gan was appointed as the Head of Marketing,
                                   managing the Group’s entire marketing initiatives in creating a
                                   differentiated Kawan brand for all of the Group’s products with
                                   long term strategies. In 2021, she is entrusted with overseeing
                                   the Group’s sustainability strategy and initiatives, ensuring
                                   that sustainability commitments are effectively executed,
                                   monitored, and aligned with the United Nations Sustainable
                                   Development Goals and the expectations of stakeholders. In
                                   2023, she took on the leadership of Quality Assurance, Research
                                   & Development, and Laboratory operations, overseeing product
                                   innovation and quality standards to support the Group’s growth
                                   and commitment to excellence in the frozen food industry.

                                   Ms. K.B. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
                                   Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
                                   Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
                                   remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. K.B. Gan
                                   is the sister of Ms. Gan Ka Hui and Ms. Gan Ka Ooi, the Non-
                                   Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.

                                   Ms. K.B. Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
                                   companies nor listed issuers. She attended six (6) out of seven
                                   (7) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
                                   December 2024.

    Date of Appointment:
    24 November 2020

    Board Meeting         6/7

58
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
                                                                                    PROFILES

                                  74    Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud (Dr. Nik) was appointed to the Board
                                        on 2 January 2017. He was appointed by the Board as Senior
DR. NIK ISMAIL BIN                      Independent Non-Executive Director on 8 April 2019. He is also
                                        the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member
NIK DAUD                                of both the Audit Committee and Nominating Committee of the
                                        Company.
Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director                                Dr. Nik graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science (Hons)
                                        from Universiti Malaya in 1975. Subsequently, he obtained
Date of Appointment:                    a Postgraduate Diploma in Food Science from the Catholic
2 January 2017                          University of Leuven, Belgium in 1976, a Master of Science in Food
                                        Science & Microbiology from University of Strathclyde, Scotland
Board Meeting            7/7            in 1978, a PhD in Food Science from University of London, United
                                        Kingdom in 1983 and a Master of Business Administration from
                                        Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (“UKM”) in 1987.

                                        He began his career as a lecturer in 1978 at UKM, on various
                                        subjects including food quality and safety systems, food
                                        microbiology, food analysis, new product development, food
                                        legislation and operations management, biotechnology
                                        management and entrepreneurship in science and technology,
                                        at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Since 1983, he
                                        has conducted workshops for numerous food companies and
                                        government agencies on food technology and industry-related
                                        topics. His industry experience includes holding positions in food
                                        companies. He served as Managing Director of UKM Holdings Sdn
                                        Bhd from 2006 to 2014.

                                        Dr. Nik had been a member of various committees, including
                                        the National HACCP and Audit Committee, Technical Advisory
                                        Committee on Malaysian Food Regulations, 1985, Technical
                                        Committee of the National Food Safety Council, Malaysia, Member
                                        of National Food Safety and Nutrition Council, Malaysia, National
                                        Codex Alimentarius Committee, Malaysian Standards (MS) on
                                        Coffee, Beverages, Flour, Starches and Food Safety, and Industrial
                                        Standard of Food and Food Products. Currently, he chairs the
                                        drafting of the revised MS on coffee and coffee products.

                                        Dr. Nik was the President of the Malaysian Institute of Food
                                        Technology for 18 years until 2014 and was also the former
                                        President of the Federation of Institute Food Science and
                                        Technology, Association of South East Asian Nations (FIFSTA).
                                        He is a Fellow of the International Academy of Food Science and
                                        Technology and a member of the IUFoST Codex Committee.

                                        He is a member of the Board of Governors of Kolej Yayasan UEM
                                        and the Board of Trustees of the Renong Group Scholarship Trust
                                        Fund.

                                        Dr. Nik does not have any family relationship with any Director
                                        and/or major shareholder of the Company. He does not hold
                                        any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers. He
                                        attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial
                                        year ended 31 December 2024.

                                                                                         59
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                                                    66  Eugene Hon Kah Weng (“Mr. Eugene”) was appointed to the
                                                        Board on 22 November 2018. He was re-designated from a
    EUGENE HON                                          member to Chairman of the Audit Committee on 16 October
    KAH WENG                                            2024 and from Chairman to a member of the Nominating
                                                        Committee on 24 February 2025. He is also a member of
    Independent Non-Executive Director                  Remuneration Committee of the Company.

                                                        Mr. Eugene started his training in accountancy in 1979 with a
                                                        reputable accounting firm and qualified as a Certified Public
                                                        Accountant in 1985 with the Malaysian Association of Certified
                                                        Public Accountants (now renamed as the Malaysian Institute
                                                        of Certified Public Accountants). He was also admitted into the
                                                        Malaysian Institute of Accountants as a Chartered Accountant.

                                                        Mr. Eugene left the accountancy profession in 1991 and
                                                        assumed a senior position with a large financial services group
                                                        covering businesses of merchant banking, finance, insurance,
                                                        leasing, money broking and consumer financing. In 2011, he
                                                        joined the Central Bank as Finance Director. While with these
                                                        organisations, he gained extensive experience in management,
                                                        finance, risk management and corporate governance. At the
                                                        Central Bank, Mr. Eugene acquired invaluable leadership skills
                                                        and gained extensive experience in corporate governance and
                                                        risk management relating to central banking operations.

                                                        Over the years, Mr. Eugene held key management positions,
                                                        was a key member of various group committees and also
                                                        served as a nominee director on the boards of various group
                                                        companies of the financial services group. At the Central Bank,
                                                        Mr. Eugene was a key member of the financial risk management
                                                        committee, crisis management committee and served on the
                                                        board of trustees for the trust funds of the Bank.

                                                        Mr. Eugene sits on the board of Affin Hwang Investment Bank
                                                        Berhad as an Independent Non-Executive Director since 1
                                                        March 2021.

                                                        Mr. Eugene does not have any family relationship with any
                                                        Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He
                                                        attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during the financial
                                                        year ended 31 December 2024.

    Date of Appointment:
    22 November 2018

    Board Meeting         7/7

60
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
                                                                                    PROFILES

                                    50  Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz (“Pn. Noor Alina”) was appointed
                                        to the Board on 1 October 2024. She is also a member of the
                                        Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominating
                                        Committee of the Company. On 24 February 2025, she was
                                        re-designated from a member to the Chairperson of the
                                        Nominating Committee.

                                        Pn. Noor Alina is a lawyer by profession and read law at the
                                        University of Leicester, United Kingdom. She is a member
                                        of the Middle Temple and was called to the Bar of England
                                        and Wales in 1998. Upon being called to the Malaysian Bar
                                        in 1999, she began her legal career with Messrs Lee, Perara &
                                        Tan, specialising mainly in Corporate Law. She left the firm
                                        in 2009 and worked as in-house counsel between 2010 and
                                        2015, where she was the Legal & Secretarial Group General
                                        Manager for a public listed company and subsequently as
                                        Head of Department of the legal and secretarial department of
                                        a large non-public listed company. In 2016, she provided legal
                                        and secretarial consultancy services for various companies
                                        before resuming practise in 2017 as the sole proprietor of the
                                        Chambers of Noor Alina Faiz. In 2021, she returned to Messrs Lee,
                                        Perara & Tan as a Partner.

                                        Pn. Noor Alina sits on the board of several public listed
                                        companies, namely Press Metal Aluminium Holdings, PMB
                                        Technology Berhad and Unisem (M) Berhad.

                                        Pn. Noor Alina does not have any family relationship with
                                        any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. She
                                        attended two (2) out of three (3) Board Meetings held during the
                                        financial year ended 31 December 2024 since her appointment
                                        on 1 October 2024.

NOOR ALINA BINTI

MOHAMAD FAIZ

Independent Non-Executive Director

Date of Appointment:
1 October 2024

Board Meeting            2/3

                                                                                         61
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                                            Abdul Razak Bin Shakor (“En. Abdul Razak”) was appointed to
                                            the Board on 16 August 2016.

                                            En. Abdul Razak attended Institut Teknologi MARA, Malaysia

                                            (now known as Universiti Teknologi MARA), majoring in

                               67           Insurance. He obtained a Certificate from Lloyd’s of London,

                                            Chartered Insurance Institute (Cert. CII), United Kingdom (“UK”)

                                            and a Certificate from the Institute of Risk Management (Cert.

                                            IRM), UK. He is also a Fellow of the Asian Insurance Institute

                                            (FAII).

                                            He has forty-five (45) years of experience in risk management,
                                            insurance and the financial services sector, both in Malaysia
                                            and internationally. He has held key regional management
                                            positions in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and North Africa for
                                            multinational and international organisations.

                                            Currently, En. Abdul Razak is the Founder and Managing Director
                                            of Esperanza Management Advisors Sdn Bhd, a specialist
                                            risk management consulting firm; Chairman of Sentinel
                                            Insurance Brokers Sdn Bhd, a Bank Negara-licenced insurance,
                                            reinsurance and takaful insurance broking company; Executive
                                            Director of Heron Talent Management, a training firm offering
                                            the Chartered Insurance Institute UK qualification courses and
                                            an independent non-executive director of Medinique Sdn. Bhd.,
                                            a company which owned and operates numerous dialysis
                                            centres throughout Peninsular Malaysia under the brand name
                                            of Pusat Harmoni Hemodialisis.

                                            En. Abdul Razak does not have any family relationship with any
                                            Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He does
                                            not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed
                                            issuers. He attended all seven (7) Board Meetings held during
                                            the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

    ABDUL RAZAK BIN

    SHAKOR

    Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

    Date of Appointment:
    16 August 2016

    Board Meeting         7/7

62
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
                                                                                    PROFILES

                              38        Gan Ka Ooi (“Ms. Amy Gan”) was appointed to the Board on 16
                                        October 2024.
GAN KA OOI, AMY
                                        Ms. Amy Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons) in
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director  Food Science & Technology from The University of New South
                                        Wales in 2008. Subsequently, she obtained Master of Nutrition
Date of Appointment:                    & Dietetics from The University of Sydney in 2010. She attended
16 October 2024                         Chief Strategy Officer Programme at the National University
                                        of Singapore Business School in 2023. She is an Accredited
Board Meeting            1/2            Practicing Dietitian by Dietitian Australia.

                                        Ms. Amy Gan began her career in 2011 as a Research Technologist
                                        at George Weston Foods Ltd., where she coordinated cereal
                                        applications development and contributed to the industry’s
                                        wheat quality analysis database. In the same year, she
                                        worked part-time as a Private Practice Dietitian in Sydney,
                                        helping patients manage chronic diseases like diabetes and
                                        obesity through nutrition assessment and consultations. She
                                        also conducted menu assessments and redevelopment for
                                        aged care facilities and organised community health talks to
                                        promote healthy eating.

                                        In 2012, Ms. Amy Gan joined KFM as Research & Development
                                        Manager, leading new product development projects, including
                                        the first of its kind healthier choice Low GI Indian Flat Breads, and
                                        improving production processes for food safety compliance.
                                        In 2017, Ms. Amy Gan took on the role of Analytical Laboratory
                                        Manager; where she designed and commissioned an ISO/IEC
                                        17025 accredited analytical laboratory to meet Kawan Food’s
                                        internal analytical needs.

                                        Since 2020, Ms. Amy Gan served as the Operations &
                                        Compliance Manager at Food Valley Sdn. Bhd., enhancing
                                        operational efficiency and achieving ISO 22000 certification.
                                        She was appointed as Director at Food Valley Sdn. Bhd. in year
                                        2023.

                                        Currently, Ms. Amy Gan is the Head of Research & Development
                                        of Kawan Food. She focuses on driving product innovation and
                                        food safety.

                                        Ms. Amy Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
                                        Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
                                        Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
                                        remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. Amy Gan
                                        is the sister of Ms. K.B. Gan, the Executive Director and Ms. Gan
                                        Ka Hui, the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the
                                        Company. She is the spouse of Mr. Andy Yeap Chee Keong, the
                                        Chief Operating Officer of the Company.

                                        Ms. Amy Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
                                        companies nor listed issuers. She attended one (1) out of two
                                        (2) Board Meetings held during the financial year ended 31
                                        December 2024 since her appointment on 16 October 2024.

                                                                                         63
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                                                    40  Gan Ka Hui (“Ms. K.H. Gan”) was appointed to the Board on 1
                                                        October 2024.
    GAN KA HUI
                                                        Ms. K.H. Gan graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons)
    Non-Independent Non-Executive Director              in Food Science from The University of Nottingham, United
                                                        Kingdom, in 2007. She also attended Chief Strategy Officer
                                                        Programme at the National University of Singapore Business
                                                        School in 2023.

                                                        Ms. K.H. Gan began her career as a Quality Assurance and
                                                        Quality Control Executive at Safe Food Corporation (M) Sdn
                                                        Bhd, where she played a crucial role in maintaining high
                                                        product standards and achieving key certifications. Her early
                                                        experiences laid the foundation for her subsequent roles
                                                        in marketing and business development at KFM, where she
                                                        helped grow sales pipelines and led multiregional marketing
                                                        strategies.

                                                        Since 2018, Ms. K.H. Gan has served as the Managing Director
                                                        of Food Valley Sdn Bhd. Under her leadership, the company
                                                        underwent a successful business transformation and achieved
                                                        remarkable growth. She led the company to ISO 22000:2018
                                                        certification within nine months and established a Health
                                                        & Safety Team to promote best practices. By enhancing
                                                        production processes, she significantly reduced customer
                                                        complaints and increased production capacity.

                                                        Her strategic vision has driven digitalization initiatives, including
                                                        cloud-based IT infrastructure and ERP implementation, which
                                                        have greatly improved operational efficiency.

                                                        Ms. K.H. Gan is the daughter of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting Group
                                                        Managing Director of Kawan Food Berhad and Madam Kwan
                                                        Sok Kay who has served as Executive Director in the past and
                                                        remain substantial shareholder of the Company. Ms. K.H.
                                                        Gan is the sister of Ms. K.B. Gan, the Executive Director and
                                                        Ms. Amy Gan, the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of
                                                        the Company.

                                                        Ms. K.H. Gan does not hold any directorship in other public
                                                        companies nor listed issuers. She attended all three (3) Board
                                                        Meetings held during the financial year ended 31 December
                                                        2024 since her appointment on 1 October 2024.

    Date of Appointment:
    1 October 2024

    Board Meeting         3/3

64
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic              Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                     Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                            BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
                                                                                                PROFILES

                                                34  Gan Meng Hoi (“Mr. Derek”) was appointed to the Board on 1
                                                    October 2024.
GAN MENG HOI,
DEREK                                               Mr. Derek graduated with a Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in
                                                    Accounting and Finance from Sunway University in affiliation
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director              with Lancaster University in 2013. He obtained professional
                                                    qualification in Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
                                                    in 2017 and was admitted as fellow member since 2022.

                                                    Mr. Derek began his career as an auditor at Ernst & Young PLT
                                                    where he obtained experience in audit, financial statement
                                                    preparation, data analytics, tax and budgeting. He was also
                                                    the pioneer in the application of data analytics in revenue and
                                                    receivables program. Mr. Derek constantly stays up to date
                                                    with financial knowledge.

                                                    Mr. Derek joined MH Delight Sdn Bhd in year 2017 to 2019
                                                    managing a group of businesses overseeing production,
                                                    logistics and marketing. He has successfully improved the
                                                    operational efficiency of the group of companies, leading also
                                                    the implementation of Goods and Services Tax and transition
                                                    to Sales and Service Tax.

                                                    In 2019, Mr. Derek took on the role of Enterprise Resource Planning
                                                    (“ERP”) project manager in KFM where he has successfully
                                                    implemented Oracle ERP to Kawan group of companies. He was
                                                    promoted to Business Process Improvement Manager in year
                                                    2020 focusing on data analytics to improve sales operations.

                                                    Mr. Derek was in January 2023 promoted to National Sales
                                                    Head, responsible to transform the Domestic Sales team
                                                    and execute business strategies to accelerate sales growth.
                                                    Managing a team of 55 sales staff, his emphasis is on coaching,
                                                    analytics, and adoption of new technologies to improve sales
                                                    performance.

                                                    Mr. Derek is the son of Mr Gan Thiam Hock, who has served
                                                    as Executive Director in the past and remain substantial
                                                    shareholder of the Company. Mr. Derek does not hold any
                                                    directorship in other public companies nor listed issuers. He
                                                    attended all three (3) Board Meetings held during the financial
                                                    year ended 31 December 2024 since his appointment on 1
                                                    October 2024.

Date of Appointment:
1 October 2024

Board Meeting            3/3

                                                                                                     65
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BOARD OF DIRECTORS'
PROFILES

                               43       Neel Naresh Nagrecha (“Mr. Neel”) was appointed to the Board
                                        on 24 February 2025.

                                        Mr. Neel is a dynamic leader in the global beverage industry.
                                        He oversees business operations and strategic direction
                                        at Rubicon Food Products Limited (“Rubicon”), ensuring its
                                        continued success and expansion into international markets.
                                        Since assuming leadership of Rubicon's Rest of World division
                                        in 2018, Mr. Neel has demonstrated innovative and visionary
                                        thinking. Under his guidance, Rubicon has experienced
                                        significant growth, particularly in the Gulf Cooperation Council
                                        and Canadian markets. His creative strategies have enabled
                                        the development of a five-year brand strategy focused on
                                        entering and expanding into the United States, Africa, and Asia.

                                        Mr. Neel's expertise goes beyond traditional business
                                        management, including ingenuity, strategic planning, and
                                        business development. His leadership has driven Rubicon's
                                        revenue growth by 300% over the past three years. Additionally,
                                        Mr. Neel provides corporate advisory assistance to the Shana
                                        Foods Limited management team, focusing on strategy, new
                                        product development, and business growth.

                                        Mr. Neel is the son of Madam Veena Nagrecha, being the
                                        beneficiary of the Narvee F’dation, one of the major shareholders
                                        of the Company. He does not hold any directorship in other
                                        public companies nor listed issuers. Since he was appointed
                                        on 24 February 2025, he has not attended any Board Meetings
                                        held during the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

NEEL NARESH

NAGRECHA

Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

    Date of Appointment:  N/A           Notes to the Board of Directors’s Profile
    24 February 2025                    None of the Directors have:
                                        1. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
       Board Meeting
                                           interest in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or its
66                                         subsidiaries (other than the related party transactions which have
                                           been disclosed in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025);
                                        2. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than
                                           traffic offences, if any; and
                                        3. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
                                           bodies during the financial year.
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                                      Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                             Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES

ADAM PANDIAN                                                                YEAP CHEE KEONG,
                                                                            ANDY
Group Chief Executive Officer
                                                                            Chief Operating Officer
Age: 62 Gender: Male Nationality: Singaporean
Appointment to current position: January 2024                               Age: 40 Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian

                                                                            Appointment to current position: July 2022

Qualification                                                               Qualification

• Bachelor of Business Administration, National University                  • Master of Business Administration (Executive),
     of Singapore                                                                Australian Graduate School of Management,
                                                                                 University of New South Wales
Training
                                                                            • First Class Honours degree in Bachelor of Electrical
• Advanced Management Programme by Prof Peter                                    Engineering, University of New South Wales
     Doyle, University of Warwick
                                                                            • Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of
• Creating Competitive Advantage by Prof Karl Moore,                             Technologists
     Oxford University
                                                                            Working Experience:
• Strategic Management for HiPos, by Saatchi & Saatchi
• Leaders Developing Leaders Program, Kellogg                               • Over 15 years of experience in procurement,
                                                                                 management, design, implementation and
     Leadership Academy                                                          commissioning of factories, cold storage, machinery,
• Kellogg Leadership Coaching; Howard Epstein (New                               control systems and electrical systems in food, power
                                                                                 and water industries.
     York) and Graham Richardson (Sydney)
                                                                            • Responsible for driving factory modernisation
Working Experience:                                                              through Industry 4.0 transformations, manufacturing
                                                                                 excellence and sustainability initiatives.
• Joined Kawan Food Group as the Advisor to the
     Executive Chairman and Head of Transformation and                      • Experienced in leading the design, procurement
     was subsequently appointed as Group Chief Executive                         and construction of a state-of-the-art frozen food
     Officer in January 2024.                                                    manufacturing and storage facility with highly
                                                                                 automated production lines, efficient refrigeration
• More than 35 years of management experience                                    systems, automated storage and retrieval systems,
     in commercial, supply chain and corporate roles,                            rainwater harvesting systems and solar photovoltaic
     developing and implementing transformation                                  systems.
     strategies across various industries and organisations
     with a foundation in fast-moving consumer goods.                       • Joined Kawan in April 2013 as Production Manager
                                                                                 and was promoted to Senior Factory Manager in
• He started his career at Procter & Gamble in brand                             March 2014. He was promoted to Chief Operating
     management and he moved on to several senior                                Officer in July 2022.
     positions including Account Director for Leo Burnett,
     Regional Account Director for Saatchi & Saatchi,                       Other Positions:
     General Manager and Commercial Director for
     Keebler, and Managing Director for Greater China and                   • Committee Member of The Federation of Malaysian
     Southeast Asia for Kellogg.                                                 Manufacturers (FMM) KL Selangor Branch

• Before joining Kawan in April 2023, he held Chief                         • Chairman of The Federation of Malaysian
     Operating Officer roles in various divisions within the                     Manufacturers (FMM) Klang Regional Committee
     Hap Seng Group and corporate roles within the Group
     MD’s office where he served in change management,                      • Deputy Secretary General of The Malaysian
     business turnarounds and driving group synergy                              Consortium of Mid-Tier Companies (MCMTC)
     across operating divisions.

Mr. Adam Pandian stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer of           He is the spouse of Ms. Amy Gan, the Non-Independent Non-Executive
the Company, effective 9 April 2025, to focus on personal interests. He,    Director of the Company, and the son-in-law of Mr. T.C. Gan, the Acting
however, agreed to continue as an Adviser to the Acting Group Managing      Group Managing Director of the Company, and Madam Kwan Sok Kay,
Director, to providing strategic guidance. He does not have any family      who has served as Executive Director in the past and remain substantial
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.     shareholder of the Company. He is also the brother-in-law of Ms. K.B.
He has a direct interest of 3,330,000 ordinary shares in the securities of  Gan, the Executive Director and Ms. K.H. Gan., the  Non-Independent Non-
the Company.                                                                Executive Director of the Company.

                                                                                                                             67
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2024

KEY MANAGEMENT’S
PROFILES

TS. DR. KUAN YAU                                              LEE FUI MENG,
HOONG                                                         ESTHER

 Factory Manager                                               Group Financial Controller

 Age: 40 Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian                   Age: 47 Gender: Female Nationality: Malaysian

 Appointment to current position: May 2022                     Appointment to current position: August 2022

Qualification                                                 Qualification

• Doctor of Philosophy in Food Technology (Food               • Chartered Accountant, Member of the Malaysian
     Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia                       Institute of Accountantsts

• Master of Science in Food Technology (Food                  Working Experience:
     Biopolymers), Universiti Sains Malaysia
                                                              • More than 20 years of working experience in the
• Bachelor of Science (Hons) in Food Science and                   areas of external auditing, finance operations, tax
     Nutrition, Universiti Malaysia Sabah                          compliance and planning, investment banking and
                                                                   corporate reporting. Prior to joining the Group, she
• Professional Technologist, Malaysia Board of                     worked with Ernst & Young, and in several public
     Technologists                                                 listed companies including in investment banking,
                                                                   manufacturing, and the food and beverage industry.
• Trend Scout, SIRIM Malaysia
• Professional Member, Research Chef Association, USA
• Professional Member, Malaysian Institute of Food

     Technology
• Professional Member, Malaysian Association for the

     Study of Obesity

Working Experience:

• More than 10 years of experience in the areas of food,
     oleochemicals, home and personal care industry,
     and as an academic in large food manufacturing,
     multinational corporations and renowned universities.

• He started his career with Seberang Flour Mill as a food
     technologist where he optimised flour formulations
     to enhance product performance for flour-based
     products at lower costs.

• As a lecturer and part of the Strategic Research
     Initiative of Taylor’s University, he was responsible
     for growing and driving research in the area of food
     biopolymers and colloids chemistry. He won a food
     development competition held in the United States
     twice. He led the development and execution of
     projects related to his area of expertise and obesity
     with research grants of more than RM1 million. He
     has contributed to the academic community by
     producing high-impact research papers and articles
     that showcase his knowledge and expertise in the field.

• Prior to joining Kawan in 2022, he was the Principal
     Researcher for Home and Personal Care at KLK Oleo,
     overseeing and leading the development of innovative
     high-value applications for globally renowned
     consumer brands.

He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major She does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major

shareholder of the Company.                                   shareholder of the Company.

68
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                                KEY MANAGEMENT’S
                                                                                                PROFILES

KHOO BOO SENG,                                          Notes to the Key Management’s Profiles
RAYMOND
                                                        None of the Key Managements have:
 Head of Export                                         1. held any directorship in public companies or listed issuers;
                                                        2. any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
 Age: 55 Gender: Male Nationality: Malaysian
                                                           interest in any competing business with Kawan Food Berhad or
 Appointment to current position: March 2017               its subsidiaries (other than the related party transactions which
                                                           have been disclosed in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30
Qualification                                              April 2025);
                                                        3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other
• SPM                                                      than traffic offences, if any; and
                                                        4. any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
Working Experience:                                        regulatory bodies during the financial year.

• More than 20 years of experience in the areas of
     domestic and export sales of fast-moving consumer
     goods, having worked in various companies that
     specialise in distributorship.

• He joined Kawan in May 2010 as Business Manager
     and was promoted to Head of Export in 2017.

He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company.

                                                                                                                                                                          69
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Kawan Food Berhad (“Kawan” or “the Company”) advocates the principles of
good corporate governance. Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), the Board and the
Company continue to enhance its corporate governance processes to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”) are aligned with best practices.

The Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview Statement”) explains how the Company has applied the
following three (3) key principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) during the FY2024:

PRINCIPLE A                   PRINCIPLE B                                                               PRINCIPLE C

BOARD LEADERSHIP AND          EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK  INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
      EFFECTIVENESS                    MANAGEMENT                      RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

This statement is prepared in compliance with Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report for detailed disclosures of the
Company’s application of the principles in the MCCG, which is available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.

 PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

Board Responsibilities

The Board is collectively responsible for setting strategic directions of the Group and oversees the business affairs
of the Group to ensure long-term success. The Board’s role and responsibilities, authorities and schedule of matters
reserved for the Board are detailed in the Board Charter which is available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.

In order to ensure effective discharge of the responsibilities of the Board, the Board has delegated some of its authority
and powers to its committees, namely, Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee (“Board
Committees”).

                                                                                Governance structure

                                                                                         THE BOARD
            Responsible to promote long term sustainable success and generate value for shareholders and stakeholders

                                                             BOARD COMMITTEES
Assist the Board in fulfilling its duties and responsibilities. The Board Committees are responsible for

                                   overseeing activities within its Terms of Reference (“TOR”)

Audit Committee (“AC”)        Nominating Committee (“NC”)                                               Remuneration Committee (“RC”)

Responsibilities              Responsibilities                                                          Responsibilities
• Internal audit              • Board size and composition                                              • Remuneration packages
• External audit              • Selection and recruitment of                                            • Directors’ fees and benefits
• Risk management                                                                                       • Performance measures for
• Financial reporting            Directors
• Audit reports               • Board performance evaluation                                               incentive plans
• Related party transactions  • Committees’ performance
• Internal controls
• Conflict of interest           evaluation
                              • Directors’ training

                                                                GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (“GCEO”)
                                                                            GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM

70
Kawan At  This is Kawan    Our Strategic                           Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad      Review                                  Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                          CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

          BOARD KEY FOCUS  Review Group                            Acquisitions            Re-constitution
          AREAS IN FY2024    strategies,                             and Joint                  of Board
                             plans and                                Venture
                                budget                                                         and Board
                                                                                             Committees

Board Activities in FY2024                                         Division of responsibilities

• Reviewed and approved the Audited Financial Statements           The details of Board’s responsibilities are set out in the Board
   of the Company and Group for the financial year ended 31        Charter which are available online at www.kawanfood.com.
   December 2023;
                                                                          Non-             The roles of the Chairman and GCEO are
• Discussed the proposed joint venture business(es) to              Independent            separate and distinct. There is a clear
   establish a joint venture company(ies);                         Non-Executive           division of responsibilities between the
                                                                                           two roles. The Chairman is responsible
• Discussed and approved the closure of Kawan Food Nantong            Chairman             for providing leadership and instilling
   Co., Ltd;                                                           ("NINEC")           good corporate governance and
                                                                                           effectiveness of the Board.
• Received report on the conflict of interest declared by the
   Directors and Key Management personnel;                             Executive           The ED is responsible for day-to-
                                                                   Director (“ED”)         day management of the business
• Approved annual business plan and budget;                                                operations.
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the NC and               GCEO
                                                                                           The GCEO is primarily responsible for the
   RC Committees;                                                                          day-to-day management of the Group’s
• Received updates and reports from the Chair of the AC                                    business within a set of authorities, Group’s
                                                                                           strategies, policies and business plans
   on its oversight of financial performance, related party                                approved and delegated by the Board.
   transactions, internal controls, risks and management on the
   work undertaken by each committee;                                    Senior            The SINED acts as a sounding board
• Received reports and updates from GCEO on operational and         Independent            for the Chairman and to serve as an
   financial performance of the Group and other key matters;       Non-Executive           intermediary for other Directors when
• Received updates on the progress of Environmental, Social                                necessary. He is also the point of
   and Governance (“ESG”) Project implementation;                       Director           contact for major shareholders and
• Reviewed and approved ESG related policies:                          (“SINED”)           other stakeholders as well as a liaison
   - Energy Management Policy                                                              for whistleblowing.
   - Water Policy
• Reviewed and approved the revised whistleblowing policy;          Independent            The INEDs are responsible for providing
• Reviewed and approved revised Organisational Chart;              Non-Executive           insights, unbiased and independent
• Reviewed and approved the Limit of Authority;                                            views, advice and judgement to the
• Approved the investment of a new paratha line and an                 Directors           Board and to ensure effective checks
   upgraded of existing paratha line;                                  (“INEDs”)           and balances on the Board. The INEDs
• Approved the investment of Factory 2 expansion plan;                                     are essential for protecting the interest
• Received new business development on Kawan2Nature Sdn                                    of shareholders, in particular minority
   Bhd and Tian Beverages Sdn Bhd;                                                         shareholders, and can make significant
• Deliberated and approved the budget for Financial Year                                   contributions to the Company’s
   Ending 31 December 2025;                                                                decision making by bringing in the
• Approved the Company’s full year and interim results;                                    quality of detached impartiality.
• Approved the proposed interim single-tier dividend and final
   dividend;                                                        Non-Independent        The NINEDs utilise their skills, expertise
• Discussed updates on corporate governance and regulatory             Non-Executive       and experience to contribute to the
   matters;                                                                                development of the Group as a whole.
• Recommended the proposed authority for the Company to            Directors (“NINEDs”)
   purchase its own ordinary shares for shareholders’ approval;
• Recommended the proposed renewal of shareholders’                The Board members have unrestricted access to the
   mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue   information pertaining to the Company to discharge their
   or trading nature;                                              duties and responsibilities. The Board also has access to the
• Reviewed and approved the overall content of the annual report;  advice and services of the Company Secretaries and may
• Discussed and approved the offer of ESOS for FY2024; and         obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s
• Discussed and approved the appointments and re-                  expense as and when necessary.
   constitution of Board and Board Committees.
                                                                                                                                                   71
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                     ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

Board Charter                                                       Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy

The Board has adopted a Board Charter that serves as a              The Company has adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy to
structured guide on matters relating to the Board. The Board        ensure a formal and transparent process for the appointment
Charter is designed to provide guidance and clarity to Directors    and re-election of Directors and the appointment of Key Senior
and Management with regards to the roles of the Boards              Management of the Company. The execution is delegated
and its Board Committees, the role of the Chairman and              to the Nominating Committee, which will be reviewed and
Independent Directors, GCEO, the requirements of Directors in       approved by the Board. The Board reviews the Fit and Proper
carrying out their roles and in discharging their duties towards    Policy periodically, which is available on the Company’s
the Company as well as the Board’s operating practices. It also     website at www.kawanfood.com.
serves as a reference point for Board activities.
                                                                    Conflict of Interest Policy (“COI”)
The Board will review and update the Board Charter from time
to time to reflect the changes to the Company’s policies and        The COI Policy outlines the disclosure obligations of each
procedures to ensure the Board Charter remains consistent           Director and Key Senior Management with respect to conflict
with the Board’s objectives, current laws and practices. The        of interest, and the procedures to be followed when a conflict
Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at              of interest arises or potentially arises to ensure systematic
www.kawanfood.com.                                                  identification, disclosure, and management of conflict of
                                                                    interest in an effective and timely manner.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
                                                                    Any Director who identifies a conflict of interest, potential
The Company has put in place a Code of Conduct and Ethics           conflict, material personal interest, or relationship that could
(“CoCE”) to ensure transparent and ethical conduct that             reasonably influence their decision-making must immediately
permeates throughout the Group. The CoCE is available on the        disclose it to the Board and abstain from discussions or voting
Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.                             on the relevant matter.

Whistleblowing Policy                                               The objective of this policy aims to ensure that conflict of
                                                                    interest is handled appropriately, promoting transparency,
The Company has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy                foster a culture of honesty and accountability, and good
to provide avenues for employees and external party to              governance within the Group. Disclosure should occur as
raise legitimate concerns relating to potential breaches            soon as practicable after the relevant facts have come to the
of business conduct, non-compliance with legal and                  knowledge of the individual and should be reported on a half
regulatory requirements as well as other malpractices. The          yearly basis, including at all Board and the AC meetings.
Whistleblowing Policy is available on the Company’s website
at www.kawanfood.com.                                               The COI Policy is available on the Company’s website at
                                                                    www.kawanfood.com.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
                                                                    Board Composition
With the implementation of Section 17A Malaysia Anti-
Corruption Commission Act coming into force in June 2020,           As at 31 December 2024, the Board has nine (9) Directors
the ABC Policy was established and updated to manage risk in        comprising one (1) NINEC, one (1) ED, one (1) SINED, two (2)
relation to fraud, bribery and corruption practices. Additionally,  INEDs and four (4) NINEDs. Of the nine (9) Directors, four (4)
Whistleblowing Policy was revised to provide avenues for            are women.
employees and other stakeholders to disclose concerns
relating to violations or improper conduct or wrongdoings           The NC reviewed the Board and Board Committees
or non-compliance with legal and regulations requirements           composition in FY2024 on an annual basis. The composition of
within the Group. The ABC Policy is available on the Company’s      the Board comprises an appropriate balance of representation
website at www.kawanfood.com.                                       from relevant key areas that supports the sustainability efforts

72
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                                Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                       Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

in the business taking into consideration the complexity and          major shareholders of the Company) as the NINED of the
nature of the Group’s businesses.                                     Company on 24 February 2025, Encik Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
                                                                      will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
The Board composition complied with paragraph 15.02 of                (“AGM”) to be held in 2025. Mr Neel Naresh Nagrecha brings
the MMLR of Bursa Securities, which requires at least two (2)         with him a deep understanding of the family's legacy and
Directors or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the           a commitment to continuing the strategic vision set forth
higher, are independent.                                              by his overseas experiences. His appointment ensures that
                                                                      Narvee F'dation's interests are well-represented on the Board,
Changes to the Composition of Board during financial year             fostering a strong alignment with the Group's long-term goals
under review                                                          and values.

On 1 October 2024, Madam Kwan Sok Kay and Mr Gan Thiam                To facilitate leadership continuity, the Board had appointed Mr
Hock retired from their positions as EDs. Both have been              Gan Thiam Chai as AGMD on 9 April 2025. Mr Gan Thiam Chai
recognised for their invaluable contributions to the Company.         will assume this role while continuing as Chairman Emeritus of
As part of the succession planning, their respective children,        the Company. Mr Adam Pandian stepped down as GCEO of the
Ms Gan Ka Hui (daughter of Mr Gan Thiam Chai and Madam                Company, effective 9 April 2025, to focus on personal interests.
Kwan Sok Kay) and Mr Gan Meng Hoi (son of Mr Gan Thiam                He has, however, continued as an Adviser to the AGMD, to
Hock) were appointed as NINEDs on 1 October 2024 to succeed           provide strategic guidance.
their positions.
                                                                      These changes mark the involvement of the second generation
Puan Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz was appointed as INED on           of the founding family in the leadership of the Company. The
1 October 2024. She brings a wealth of experience in corporate        new directors bring fresh perspectives and a commitment to
law and governance, having served in various legal and                uphold the Company's values and drive its future growth.
executive roles in private sectors.
                                                                      Board Independence
On 16 October 2024, Mr Gan Thiam Chai retired from his role
as Executive Chairman. He was bestowed the honorary title             The Board recognises that independence and objective
of Chairman Emeritus and continued to serve as an Adviser             judgement are crucial and imperative in decision-making
to the Company. As part of the succession planning, Ms Gan            process. The INEDs play a significant role in providing an
Ka Ooi, the daughter of Mr Gan Thiam Chai, was appointed as           unbiased and independent view, advice and judgement taking
NINED on 16 October 2024.                                             into account the interest of relevant stakeholders including
                                                                      minority shareholders of the Group.
Mr Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim was re-designated from INED
to NINEC on 16 October 2024 given his tenure of an INED has           Pursuant to Practice 5.3 of the MCCG, the tenure of an
reached 9 years.                                                      Independent Director does not exceed a cumulative term
                                                                      of nine (9) years. Upon completion of nine (9) years, an
Changes to the Composition of Board in 2025                           Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board as a
                                                                      Non-Independent Director.
On 24 February 2025, Mr Neel Naresh Nagrecha was appointed
as NINED. Subsequently, on 9 April 2025, Mr Gan Thiam Chai            However, the retention of Independent Directors after serving a
was appointed as Acting Group Managing Director (“AGMD”)              cumulative term of nine (9) years shall be subjected to annual
of the Company. The appointments increased the total                  assessment by the NC, regarding the independence and
number of Directors to eleven (11) as of the report date. Details     contributions; and annual shareholders’ approval in a general
of the Directors are set out in Board of Directors' Profiles of this  meeting, where the Board provides valid justification on the
annual report.                                                        recommendation in the explanatory notes to the resolution in
                                                                      the notice of a general meeting. Notwithstanding the above,
In conjunction with the appointment of Mr Neel Naresh                 the tenure of Independent Director should not exceed a
Nagrecha (act as a nominee of Narvee F'dation, one of the             cumulative term of twelve (12) years.

                                                                                                                       73
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud will serve on the Board as INED for     The Board has achieved the country's aspirational target of
a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1 January 2026. The         30% representation of women directors in line with Practice
Board, after considering the recommendation of the NC and          5.9 of MCCG 2021 and will remain committed to considering a
without the participation of Dr Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud, resolved  diverse range of candidates, including female representation,
to retain him as Independent Directors as he brings a wealth       in all future recruitment and selection processes.
of knowledge and experience to the Company. In addition, he
provides effective checks and balances in Board proceedings        The Diversity Policy is available on the Company’s website at
and continues to exercise his independence and objective           www.kawanfood.com.
judgment in Board deliberations and Board Committee
meetings.

As to-date, the tenure of other Independent Directors is less
than nine (9) years of service. The Board is of the view that
the independence of the Independent Directors should not be
determined solely or arbitrarily by their tenure of service. The
Board believes that their continued contribution will provide
stability and benefits to the Board and the Company as a
whole, especially their invaluable knowledge of the Group
and its operations gained through the years. The calibre,
qualification, experience and personal qualities, particularly
of the Director’s integrity and objectivity in discharging his
responsibilities in the best interest of the Company should be
the predominant factors to determine the ability of a Director
to serve effectively as an Independent Director.

The Board is also confident that the Independent Directors         Board Evaluation
themselves, after having provided all the relevant confirmations
on their independence, will be able to determine if they can       The Board through its NC also undertakes an annual review
continue to bring independent and objective judgement              of performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board
during Board deliberations and decision making.                    Committees as well as the contribution of each individual
                                                                   Directors to the Board and Board Committees.
Diversity
                                                                   The Board Evaluation Report indicated that the Board, Board
The Board acknowledges the importance of having diversity          Committees and individual Directors continue to be highly
of Board, Management and employees in terms of skills,             effective in providing oversight of the Company and its
expertise, gender, age and ethnicity. The Company has put          governance.
in place a Diversity Policy as the Company’s commitment to
diversity at all levels.                                           Following the FY2024 Board evaluation, the Board is satisfied
                                                                   that the SINED and INEDs are independent to discharge their
During the financial year under review, there were significant     duties and responsibilities effectively.
changes to the Company’s Board composition. As of 31
December 2024, the Board comprised nine (9) Directors,
including four (4) female Directors, which accounted for 44%
representation of women on the Board. With the appointment
of new Directors on 24 February 2025 and 9 April 2025, the total
number of Directors increased to eleven (11), resulting in a 36%
representation of women on the Board.

74
Kawan At         This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial                     Other
A Glance         Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements                    Information

                                               CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Time Commitment

The Board meets once quarterly with additional meetings being convened whenever necessary, to discharge their responsibilities
effectively. The Senior Management are also invited to meetings for presentation, if required.

The attendance of the Directors at Board and its Committee meetings for FY2024 are as follows:

Member(s)                                      Board  AC                                        NC   RC

Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                       7/7    4/4                                       4/4  2/2
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman(a)
                                               5/5
Gan Thiam Chai
Chairman Emeritus and AGMD(b)                  4/4

Gan Thiam Hock                                 4/4
Executive Director(c)
                                               6/7
Kwan Sok Kay
Executive Director(c)                          7/7    7/7                                       4/5  3/3

Gan Ka Bien                                    7/7    7/7                                       5/5  3/3
Executive Director
                                               2/3    3/3                                       1/1  1/1
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director      7/7

Eugene Hon Kah Weng                            3/3
Independent Non-Executive Director(d)
                                               3/3
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz
Independent Non-Executive Director(e) (f)      1/2

Abdul Razak Bin Shakor
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Gan Meng Hoi
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(e)

Gan Ka Hui
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(e)

Gan Ka Ooi
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(g)

Neel Naresh Nagrecha
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director(h)

Remarks:
(a)	Re-designated from INED to NINEC on 16 October 2024, and ceased as AC Chairman, NC and RC member on 16 October 2024.
(b)	Retired on 16 October 2024 and was bestowed the honorary title of Chairman Emeritus; subsequently appointed as AGMD on 9 April 2025.
(c)		 Retired on 1 October 2024.
(d)	Re-designated from AC member to AC Chairman on 16 October 2024, and re-designated from NC Chairman to member on 24 February 2025.
(e) Appointed on 1 October 2024.
(f)		 Appointed as AC, NC and RC member on 1 October 2024, and re-designated to NC Chairperson on 24 February 2025.
(g) Appointed on 16 October 2024.
(h) Appointed on 24 February 2025.

Board Training and Development

The Board acknowledges the importance of continuous education and training programmes for Directors to discharge its
responsibilities effectively and to be apprised of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such regulatory
requirements will have on the Group. The Company Secretaries circulate and brief the relevant guidelines on statutory and
regulatory requirements from time to time and for the Board’s reference.

All Directors have attended the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”) as required by the MMLR of Bursa Securities, except for
the newly appointed Director, who will complete it within four (4) months from the date of appointment. Additionally, most Directors
have completed MAP Part II on sustainability, which is also a required programme to be completed in 2025.

                                                                                                                                                                           75
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                         ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

The Directors of the Company had attended the following training programmes, workshops, briefing and seminars during FY2024:

Board of Directors’ Training 2024

Name        Courses/Seminar/Conference                                           Date         Organiser

            Fireside Chat with Former Central Bank Governors: ‘Central Banking in 6 February  FIDE FORUM
            an Evolving International Financial System’

            Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

            Reporting                                                                         Bhd

            Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

            relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                 Bhd

            PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘The Global Landscape: Near-  4 March      Professor Pushan Dutt, INSEAD
            Term Volatility’

            PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘Generative AI: What Comes Next 15 March   Professor Amit Joshi, IMD
            After ChatGPT? Predicting the Next 5 Gen AI Tools!’

Lim Hun     Directors Masterclass Series: ‘What Directors Must Know: Recent      17 April     FIDE FORUM
Soon @      Developments in Climate Science’                                                  FIDE FORUM in collaboration with BNM
David Lim                                                                                     Chionh Chye Kit, Cynopsis Solutions
            Engagement Session with FIDE FORUM Members on BNM Annual Report 30 May
            2023, Economic and Monetary Review 2023 and Financial Stability
            Review 2023

            PBB In-House Training: Virtual Talk on ‘ABAC and AML: Senior         5 June
            Management and the Board’s Responsibilities and Perspective’

            Sustainability Training Programme for Board of Directors (Online)    1 July       Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
                                                                                 19 August
            IFCTF 2024 Masterclass Programme: ‘Combatting Financial Crime and
            the AML/CFT/CPF: A Technical Deep Dive’

            Case Studies: Wirecard’s Reluctant Whistleblower and Other Financial 15 October   Securities Industry Development
            Deceptions                                                                        Corporation (SIDC)

            Directors’ Remuneration Report Launch                                11 November  FIDE FORUM
                                                                                              Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
            Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February     Bhd
                                                                                              Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Gan Thiam Reporting                                                                           Bhd
                                                                                              Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Chai        Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February      Bhd
                                                                                              Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
            relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                 Bhd
                                                                                              Asia School of Business
Gan Ka      Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February     SIRIM Academy
Bien        Reporting                                                                         Food Safety and Quality Division,
                                                                                              Ministry of Health
            Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February
            relation to commodity futures structured warrants

            Carbon Markets: What Directors Need to Know                          12 June

            Webinar: Food Safety Standards and Its Challenges                    16 January

            Webinar: Keperluan Perlabelan Makanan Terkini PPM PUA 209 (Pindaan 29 January
            No. 4 2020)

            Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

            Reporting                                                                         Bhd

Dr. Nik     Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February      Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Ismail Bin  relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                 Bhd
Nik Daud
            Precision Nutrition and Food Science Strategies to Combat Persistent 29 February  International Union of Food Science
            Metabolic Challenges Associated with Long-COVID                                   and Technology

            Cyber and Director’s and Officers Insurance                          13 March     BoardRoom in collaboration with
                                                                                              Aeon Insurance Brokers

            Interdisciplinary Approach Towards Global Food and Nutrition Security 28 March    International Union of Food Science
            of Sustainable Development Goals                                                  and Technology

            Cybersecurity Awareness (Physical)                                   29 November

Eugene      The Anti-Money Laundering Act (AMLA)                                 14 February  Affin Hwang Investment Bank
Hon Kah     Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions                  15 February  Affin Bank Group
Weng
            Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February     Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
            Reporting                                                                         Bhd

76
Kawan At     This is Kawan  Our Strategic                       Our Commitment to Good               Financial         Other
A Glance     Food Berhad    Review                              Corporate Governance                 Statements        Information

                                                   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

Name         Courses/Seminar/Conference                                                   Date       Organiser

             Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                       Bhd

             Cybersecurity and Data Privacy: The Fight Against Financial Crime            2 April    Securities Industry Development
                                                                                                     Corporation (SIDC)

             Responsibility Mapping with Directors of Financial Institutions              24 April   Financial Institutions Directors
                                                                                                     Education (FIDE)

             Bespoke Workshop: ‘Cultivating Strategic Thinking Competence’                25 May     Institute of Corporate Directors
                                                                                                     Malaysia (ICDM)

             Climate Governance Malaysia (CGM) Masterclass Series 2024: ‘Latest 17 July              FIDE Asia School of Business
             Developments in Climate: Aligned Executive Compensation’

             Preventing Fraud: The Board’s Roles and Responsibilities                     8 August   Financial Institutions Directors
                                                                                                     Education (FIDE)

             Strategic Insights: Navigating Islamic Finance and Climate Change            3 October  Affin Bank Group

             Directors Remuneration Survey Report                                         11 November Financial Institutions Directors
                                                                                                                Education (FIDE)

             Economic Outlook and Post Budget 2025 Forum                                  14 November Financial Institutions Directors
                                                                                                                Education (FIDE)

             Bespoke Workshop: ‘A Delicate Balance: Board and Management                  7 December Institute of Corporate Directors
             Relationship’                                                                                      Malaysia (ICDM)

             Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             Reporting                                                                               Bhd

             Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                       Bhd

Noor         Future Proofing Your Business: What You Need to Know About the “S” in “ESG”  6 March    Asia School of Business
Alina Binti  Board Oversight of Climate Risks and Opportunities                           23 April   Asia School of Business
Mohamad      Carbon Markets: What Directors Need to Know                                  12 June    Asia School of Business
Faiz         SIDC Sustainable and Responsible Investment Conference 2024                  20 June    Securities Commission
             ESG and Internal Audit: Strengthening the Third Line of Defence              1 July     Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn.
                                                                                                     Bhd.

             ESG/Impact Investigating: What Are Investors Looking For?                    19 August  Asia School of Business

             Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact (LIP) 9 to 10 October Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia

             Cybersecurity Awareness Training                                             29 November Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.

Abdul        Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February           Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Razak Bin    Reporting                                                                               Bhd
Shakor
             Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February            Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
             relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                       Bhd

             Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             Reporting                                                                               Bhd

Gan Ka       Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

Ooi, Amy relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                           Bhd

             Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1)                               11 to 12   Institute of Corporate Directors
                                                                                          November   Malaysia

             Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             Reporting                                                                               Bhd

             Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn
Gan Ka Hui relation to commodity futures structured warrants
                                                                                                     Bhd

             Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1)                               11 to 12   Institute of Corporate Directors
                                                                                          November   Malaysia

             Launch of Bursa Malaysia ESG Reporting Platform for Mandatory ESG 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

             Reporting                                                                               Bhd

Gan Meng Amendments to Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements in 22 February Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn

Hoi, Derek relation to commodity futures structured warrants                                         Bhd

             Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP Part 1)                               11 to 12   Institute of Corporate Directors
                                                                                          November   Malaysia

                                                                                                                                            77
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

NC                                                            Roles:
                                                              • Oversee the Board appointment process including the
 Members
                                                                 nomination and selection of Directors and key senior
1 Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz                                  management of Kawan.
                                                              • Recommend new Directors’ nomination to the Board and
      Independent Non-Executive Director                         key senior management of Kawan.
      Chairperson(a)                                          • Review Board training programmes and making
                                                                 recommendations thereof.
2 Eugene Hon Kah Weng                                         • Assess the performance and effectiveness of individual
                                                                 Directors, Board and Board Committees, which includes
      Independent Non-Executive Director                         assessing the fit and properness of Directors who are due
      Member(b)                                                  for retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
                                                              • Assess and review the Board composition (ie. size,
3 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                                    experience, diversity etc) and organisation structure of
                                                                 Kawan.
      Senior Independent Non-Executive Director               • Oversee the succession planning for the Board and key
      Member                                                     senior management of Kawan.

4 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim

      Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
      Member(c)

 Remarks:
 (a)	Appointed as NC member on 1 October 2024, and re-

       designated to NC Chairperson on 24 February 2025.
 (b)	Re-designated from NC Chairman to member on 24

       February 2025.
 (c)	Ceased as NC Member on 16 October 2024 in view of his

       redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.

    FOCUS AREAS IN   Succession                               Assessment     Appointments
    FY2024           Planning for                                 of Board        and Re-
                    Management
                                                              effectiveness   constitution
                                                                              of the Board
                                                                              Committees

NC Activities in FY2024                                       • Reviewed and recommended the appointment of new
• Reviewed performance and effectiveness of the Board            Directors;

   and Board Committees as well as contribution of each       • Reviewed and assessed the term of office and performance
   individual Directors to the Board and Board Committees in     of the AC and each of its members;
   FY2024;
• Discussed and reviewed Succession Planning for              • Assessed Directors’ training needs to receive suitable
   Management;                                                   orientation and training programmes;
• Reviewed the composition of the Board in meeting
   necessary skills, experience and competency of the Board;  • Reviewed the Directors’ retirement by rotation at the
• Recommended the re-constitution of the Board;                  Twentieth (“20th”) AGM of the Company held on 26 June
• Conducted mid-year Key Performance Indicators and              2024;
   assessment with respective Senior Management;
• Reviewed the performance of GCEO;                           • Discussed the management structure of the Company;
                                                                 and

                                                              • Reviewed the revised organisational structure.

78
Kawan At  This is Kawan   Our Strategic                        Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad     Review                               Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

  RC                                                           • Assess the performance and recommend to the Board
                                                                  for approval the total remuneration packages of GCEO/
   Members                                                        AGMD, ED, Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) and Key Senior
                                                                  Management.
  1 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
                                                               Remuneration packages
        Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
        Chairman                                               The remuneration packages for the ED and Key Senior
                                                               Management comprises basic salary, benefits in kind, bonus
 2 Eugene Hon Kah Weng                                         and allowances which reflect their roles and performance
                                                               for the year. The NED’s remuneration package comprises
        Independent Non-Executive Director                     Directors’ fees, benefits in kind and meeting allowances
        Member                                                 which reflects individual’s role and responsibilities. The
                                                               Board remuneration is reviewed by benchmarking against
 3 Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz                               peer companies.

        Independent Non-Executive Director                     The Chairman of the AC, RC and NC receives higher fees
        Member(a)                                              in respect of their service as a chairman of the respective
                                                               committee. The Directors will receive an additional fee if
 4 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                                    they are members of the Board Committees. The fees for
                                                               Directors are determined by the Board with approval from
        Non-Independent Non-Executive Director                 shareholders at AGM.
        Member(b)
                                                               The interested Directors abstained from deliberation and
   Remarks:                                                    voting on their own remuneration at the Board meetings.
   (a) Appointed as RC member on 1 October 2024.
   (b)	Ceased as RC member on 16 October 2024 in view of his  The remuneration of the Directors and GCEO on a named
                                                               basis for FY2024 are disclosed in the CG Report which is
         redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.        available on the Company’s website at www.kawanfood.com.

Roles:
• Assess, review and recommend to the Board the

   remuneration packages of individual Directors, GCEO/
   AGMD and Key Senior Management.
• Review and approve performance measures for incentive
   plans recommended by the Management.

          FOCUS AREAS IN  Performance                          Remuneration              Remuneration
          FY2024          Management                            Package for                Package for
                                                               Directors and                Chairman
                             & Reward                                 GCEO
                              System                                                   Emeritus, Finance
                                                                                           Director and
                                                                                         Sales Director.

RC activities in FY2024:                                       • Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval                management incentives (supervisor and above) and final
                                                                  bonus for the following:
   the Directors fees and benefits payable to the Directors       - Executive Directors
   (including allowances) for recommendation to the               - Key Managements
   shareholders for approval at the AGM;                          - Employees
• Reviewed and deliberated on the Balance Scorecard, Key
   Performance Indicators and Performance Management           • Reviewed and recommended to the Board the revised
   and Reward System;                                             Performance Management and Reward System; and
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board’s approval the
   remuneration/benefit payable in 2024 for the following:     • Reviewed and recommended to the Board the contract
   - Executive Directors’ remuneration packages and               terms, remuneration and benefits for Chairman Emeritus,
                                                                  Finance Director and Sales Director.
      benefits payable (including allowances).
   - Key Management’s salary packages.                                                                                                        79
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                              ANNUAL REPORT 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE B EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

AC                                                             Sound Risk Management and Internal Control

The AC of the Company comprises one (1) SINED and two (2)      The Board acknowledges their overall responsibilities in
INEDs. Collectively, the AC members are financially literate,  maintaining an effective risk management and internal
possess commercial expertise skills and experience to          control system to safeguard stakeholders’ investments and
enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities     the Group’s assets. The AC assists the Board in the oversight
pursuant to the AC’s TOR.                                      of proper implementation of risk management and control
                                                               system.
Based on the recommendation of MCCG, the AC requires a
former key audit partner to observe a cooling-off period of    The Group has established a robust risk management
at least three (3) years before being appointed as a member    framework as an approach to identify, assess, report and
of the AC.                                                     monitor risks facing the Group. Kawan maintains a risk
                                                               register comprises Group wide risks specific to the business
The AC assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory and       activities was reviewed and updated every quarter.
fiduciary responsibilities on financial reporting, compliance
with applicable financial reporting standards and other        The Group has outsourced the Internal Audit function to
legal requirements, internal audit, external audit functions   a professional service firm which is independent of the
and risk management of the Group.                              activities and operations of the Group. The outsourced
                                                               Internal Auditors report directly to the AC. The Internal Audit
On an annual basis, the AC reviews and evaluates the           function is primarily responsible in assessing and improving
suitability, objectivity and independence of the External      the effectiveness of the risk management, internal control
Auditors taking into consideration the following:              systems and governance processes within the Group.

                           Technical competencies              The statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set
                                                               out in this annual report provides a detailed description of
                      Independence and objectivity             the state of risk management and internal controls.

                          Audit scope and planning

                      Adequacy of technical support

                               Time commitment

                          Audit and non-Audit fees

  The details on the roles of the AC are set out in AC report
  of this annual report.

80
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                         Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT

PRINCIPLE C INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS

Communications with Stakeholders                               Facilities, which is in compliance with Section 327(2) of the
                                                               Companies Act 2016. The virtual AGM provides an avenue
The Board recognises the importance of effective               for the shareholders to seek clarification and insights into
communication between the Company, investors,                  the operations and financial performance of the Group. The
shareholders, stakeholders and public at large to provide      Chairman took the chair of the AGM and the Chief Operating
timely, accurate, and equal access to material information     Officer (“COO”) gave a presentation to the shareholders
on the Group’s performance and operations.                     covering the results of the Company as well as the operation
                                                               and financial performance for the FYE 31 December 2023.
Kawan engages with its stakeholders by way of                  During the Question-and-Answer session of the AGM, its
announcements via Bursa Securities and press releases.         shareholders were invited to post their questions to the
All financial results, notice of dividend and ad-hoc           Board. The COO was presented to answer shareholders’
announcements are available on the Bursa Securities’           queries and concerns.
website. Investor relation section which is available on the
Company’s corporate website at www.kawanfood.com               Notice of AGM sets out the resolutions together with the
contains information on Kawan such as corporate profile,       Company’s Annual Report was circulated to shareholders
annual reports, Board of Directors, AGM etc for both existing  at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the meeting to
and potential shareholders. The stakeholders can reach         provide shareholders with sufficient time for considerations
out to Kawan should they require further information or        and to make informed decisions. Shareholders who are
assistance.                                                    unable to attend are allowed to appoint proxies to attend,
                                                               speak and vote on their behalf. The voting at the 20th AGM
Kawan also organised meetings with analysts, institutional     was conducted through electronic poll voting of which the
fund managers, shareholders and potential investors.           votes cast was validated by an independent scrutineer.
Our discussion generally involves financial and business       The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the AGM is to
performance, outlook and strategic direction of the Group.     be announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting
                                                               day while the minutes of the AGM shall be circulated to
General Meetings                                               the shareholders not later than 30 business days after the
                                                               meeting.
The 20th AGM of the Company was conducted virtually
through live streaming and online remote participation by      This Statement was approved by the Board on 14 April 2025.
using Remote Participation and Electronics Voting (“RPEV”)
                                                                                                                                               81
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL

   INTRODUCTION                                                 Risk Management (“RM”) Framework

The Board of Directors (“The Board”) is pleased to present                              BOARD OF DIRECTORS
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control              • Accountable for the governance of the Group’s risk
of Kawan Food Berhad (“the Company” or “Kawan”) and
its subsidiaries (“the Group”), outlining the nature of risk             management and internal control systems.
management and internal control for the financial year
ended 31 December 2024. This statement has been prepared                                               AC
in accordance with paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia           • Oversees the implementation of risk management
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
(“MMLR”) and by the Statement on Risk Management and                     framework, policies and procedures in identifying
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers             and managing risks across the Group;
and Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance (“MCCG”).               • Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the
                                                                         Group’s risk management.
Board responsibilities
                                                                        RISK MANAGEMENT WORKING COMMITTEE
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the                                        (“RMWC”)
Group’s system of risk management and internal control.
It remains committed to maintaining an ongoing process             • Provides adequate support to AC with regards to
to review the adequacy and integrity of these systems to                 risk management;
safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
                                                                   • Chaired by the CEO and supported by Head of
The Board has delegated responsibilities to the Audit                    Departments/Functional Heads;
Committee (“AC”), which provides oversight of the Group’s
risk management and internal control systems. The adequacy         • Identifies, assesses and monitors the Group’s risks;
and effectiveness of these systems were reviewed by the AC,        • Oversees the quarterly report on risk exposures
taking into consideration conducted by internal and external
auditors during the year.                                                and risk management activities to facilitate
                                                                         understanding and determination of appropriate
Nevertheless, the Board recognises that these systems are                risk responses, including follow-up on risk
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure.           mitigation actions. The risk management report is
Therefore, they can only provide a reasonable, rather than               reported to AC on a quarterly basis for review and
absolute assurance against material misstatements or                     discussion.
losses.
                                                                                                1st line of defence
Risk culture                                                                                       Business Units

The risk culture is driven from the top and reinforced by              Risk management on a day-to-day basis through
middle Management, serving as the foundation of a robust                                         effective controls.
risk management framework.
                                                                                               2nd line of defence
Risk management updates are continuously communicated                                           Risk Management
and reinforced throughout the Group to enhance the                   Provide oversight and support to first line of defence
identification, assessment and mitigation of risks. The Group              by identifying, managing, and monitoring risk
has instilled a culture where the Board, Management and                      including policies, procedures and training.
employees are committed to strengthening processes and
controls in managing business activities.                                                       3rd line of defence
                                                                                         Internal and External Audit
                                                                          Provide independent assurance to the AC and
                                                                         Board on the effectiveness and adequacy of the
                                                                        risk management framework and internal control

                                                                                                        system.

82
Kawan At             This is Kawan         Our Strategic          Our Commitment to Good  Financial             Other
A Glance             Food Berhad           Review                 Corporate Governance    Statements            Information

                                    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Risk Management Process

The Group has in place a risk management process that provides a structured approach to ensure that there is an on-going
process to identify, prioritise, and manage risks exposure, as illustrated below :

        Identify          Assess risks             Evaluate          Decide risk                  Monitor                Report
     existing and      Assess likelihood              risks       response – how           continuously the           Present risk
    potential risks  and impact of these                          to manage and           identified risks and    reports to the AC
including emerging                             Determine the                                their controls in   and highlight new/
   risks as well as      risks using risk  significance and risk     control risks                              emerging risk areas
changes affecting              matrix                                                               place         and the controls
     existing risks                         level of these risks
                                              – high, medium                                                            in place
                                                    and low

Managing risks within the Group involves an on-going assessment process to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this statement.

The Risk Register is maintained to support risk management activities and is reviewed and updated quarterly by RMWC.
A Group Risk Management Report is then prepared, highlighting significant and emerging risks, corresponding mitigation
measures and the status of follow-up actions. This report is presented to the AC every quarter for review and deliberation to
ensure that risk exposures remain within acceptable levels and that appropriate mitigation measures are in place. The AC
Chairman subsequently reports the updates to the Board.

The following table highlights the key risks deliberated by the AC in FY2024:

FOCUS AREAS          IMPACT                                                    MITIGATION MEASURES

Competitiveness      Risk of a challenging business environment driven         • Expand market reach and diversify revenue
Risk                 by increasing competition from new market                    streams
                     entrants, geopolitical shifts, market volatility, rising
                     commodity and operational costs, cost pressures           • Refine business processes and resource
                     and intense market investment by industry peers,             allocation to maximise efficiency and
                     potentially impacting profit sustainability and              profitability
                     market position.
                                                                               • Pursue cost leadership by implementing key
                                                                                  initiatives to optimise resource utilisation and
                                                                                  minimise expenditure

Foreign              Risk of foreign currency fluctuations, especially the     • Implement foreign exchange strategies based
Exchange Risk        U.S. dollar, may lead to lower ringgit realisation           on prevailing market conditions to enable
                     on exports, exposing Group’s export revenue to               proactive hedging
                     earnings volatility.
                                                                               • Monitor exchange rate trends through market
                                                                                  outlook discussions with financial institutions

                                                                               • Hedge key foreign currency exposures to
                                                                                  minimise risk

Human Capital        Risk that arise from challenges in attracting and         • Conduct remuneration and benefits reviews
Risk                 retaining competent talent, as well as optimising         • Offer compensation incentive schemes,
                     workforce efficiency, may impact the effective
                     implementation of the Group’s strategies.                    including the Employees’ Share Option Scheme
                                                                                  and annual bonuses, to enhance retention
                                                                               • Streamline operations processes to enhance
                                                                                  productivity

                                                                                                                                    83
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

   INTERNAL AUDIT

The Group’s Internal Audit function (“GIA”) comprises both an outsourced team and a newly established in-house Internal Audit
team, which reports independently to the AC. The GIA provides risk-based and objective assurance on the adequacy, efficiency,
and effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance. The selection of audit areas is based on an annual audit plan
approved by the AC, which is developed through risk assessments of Kawan Group.

During the financial year, the GIA conducted reviews to assess the adequacy of controls over the following areas:

• Strategic Planning: Reviewed strategic risks and the adequacy of action plans, including the reasonableness of key
   performance indicators (KPIs) to monitor progress toward the Group’s mission, vision, and objectives.

• Recurrent Related Party Transactions: Reviewed compliance with RRPT procedures and shareholders’ mandate, including
   management’s monitoring against approved limits.

• Sales and Customer Management: Reviewed controls over advertisement and promotion expenses, sales discounts, customer
   returns, and customer payment processes.

• Procurement and Supply Chain: Reviewed procurement management on raw and packaging material, as well as transportation
   management, with a focus on in-house vehicle utilisation and the effectiveness of outsourced delivery services.

• Inventory Management: Reviewed the effectiveness of spare parts and packaging material management for accuracy and
   proper inventory control.

• Asset Management and Maintenance: Reviewed the management of machinery and equipment, along with the effectiveness
   of maintenance activities, including preventive, corrective, and predictive measures.

• Cybersecurity Control: Reviewed the effectiveness of security defense strategies, network controls, and data protection
   measures.

Upon completion of each audit assignment, the GIA provides an audit report which covers the scope of work performed,
evaluation of internal control systems, detailed audit observations, management responses and timeline for implementing the
GIA’s recommendation. All significant and material findings are reported to the AC for review and deliberation. The AC then
assesses the overall adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems and reports its deliberations and material
findings to the Board.

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM

The key features of the Group’s internal control system are as follows:

The AC and the Board                                           Annual Budget and Financial Projections
The Board has delegated its authority in overseeing the        The Group’s annual budget is deliberated and approved
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Group’s risk       by the Board on an annual basis. Actual performances are
management and internal control systems to the AC. The         reviewed against the approved budget with explanations of
AC has oversight of the independence, scope of work and        major variances and presented to the Board.
resources of the Internal Audit. The AC meets quarterly to
review audit and investigations reports prepared by IA. The    Group Policies and Procedures
effectiveness of the internal control system is monitored and  The Group has put in place documented policies and
evaluated by the AC on an ongoing basis.                       procedures which covers a wide range of areas including
                                                               food safety, security, product quality assurance, human
Further details on AC activities can be found on AC report.    resource, and purchasing to provide guidance for the
                                                               employees. These policies are subject to review as and when
Organisation Structure & Authority Limits                      required to ensure its relevance to the Group’s operations
The Group has a formal organisation structure with clearly     and continue to support the Group’s business activities as it
defined accountabilities, reporting lines and authority in     continues to grow.
order to align to its business and operational changes and
needs.                                                         Human Resource Policies and Procedures
                                                               The HR Policies and Procedures of the Group incorporates
The Limit of Authority clearly outlines the Board and          policies and guidelines on human resource management
Management’s limits and approval authorities across            in the Group. These policies and procedures are reviewed
various key processes. The delegation of authorities is duly   as and when the need arises and are communicated to
approved by the Board and subject to review and update to      employees via email.
reflect business and operational changes and needs.

84
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                               Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                      Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                         STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL

Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”)                                        Information and Communication
WBP provides internal and external parties with accessible           The Group has in place effective communication of critical
channels to raise concerns or disclose information                   information channels across the Group. Matters that require
regarding suspected or known malpractices, misconducts               Board and Senior Management’s attention are highlighted for
or wrongdoings within the Group without fear of any form of          review, deliberation and decision making on a timely basis.
victimisation, harassment, retribution or retaliation.
                                                                     Monitoring and Review
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has                    Monthly management reports comprising key financial
oversight over the access to the whistleblowing cases and            results and operational performance are reviewed and
the whistleblowing processes. The WBP is available on the            monitored by the management team. Quarterly financial
Group’s website.                                                     statements are presented to the AC and Board for their
                                                                     review, consideration and approval.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (“ABC”)
The Group’s ABC sets out principles and clear procedures for         Business Continuity Management (“BCM”)
all donations, sponsorships, hospitality and gifting activities      BCM is part of our commitment in enhancing business
of the Group. The ABC also provide guidance to all employees         resilience throughout our Group. The Group adopts a BCM
on how to deal with improper solicitation, bribery and other         Policy to provide a systematic approach and consistent
corrupt activities.                                                  practices to build organisational resilience with adequate
                                                                     capability mechanism to ensure continuation of business
This policy applies to all stakeholders and employees of             and operations. The BCM System is periodically reviewed and
Kawan and the Group. All employees are required to declare           tested accordingly to ensure effectiveness and relevance to
that they have read, understood and will abide by the Policy.        the current business environment.
Training on ABC including mandatory onboarding sessions
for new employees and annual refresher sessions for existing         Certifications and Compliance Standards
employees, is conducted to foster a culture of zero tolerance        The Group continues to adopt relevant safety, quality, HALAL
for bribery and corruption and to raise awareness on                 and Occupational Health and Safety certification systems.
corporate liability.
                                                                     Our manufacturing site undergoes independent third-
People Development                                                   party audit under the BRCGS Global Food Safety Standard
A succession planning has been established to strengthen             and ensures strict product quality and safety through
the Group’s talent and succession. In respect of this, the Group     certifications such as MS1480 HACCP, MS1514 GMP, MeSTI, VHM,
has identified the potential talent within the organisation          and HALAL certification. Additionally, the Group complies with
and has provided structured leadership development                   the FDA BTA and FSMA to meet international food safety and
programme and coaching in making this talent ready for               regulatory requirements.
future leadership. The Group will continue to develop its
human capital by improving talent management, learning               Beyond food safety, the Group adopts an Integrated
and development, organisation design, and remuneration               Management System encompassing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and
and performance management.                                          ISO 45001, ensuring compliance with best practices in quality,
                                                                     environmental management, and occupational health and
                                                                     safety.

REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR                     CONCLUSION

Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities         The Chief Operating Officer and Group Financial Controller
Berhad’s MMLR, the External Auditors have reviewed this              have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s risk
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for                management and internal control systems are operating
inclusion in the FY2024 Annual Report. Their review was              adequately and effectively, in all material aspects.
performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice
Guide 3: Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report              The Board is of the view that the risk management and internal
on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control             control systems are satisfactory and have not resulted in any
included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian                material losses, contingencies, nor uncertainties that would
Institute of Accountants. Based on their review, nothing has         require separate disclosure in the Group’s annual report.
come to their attention that causes them to believe that             Nevertheless, the Board shall continue to take the appropriate
this statement is not prepared, in all material respect, in          and necessary measures to continuously improve the Group’s
accordance with the disclosures required by paragraph 41             risk management and internal control system to meet the
and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal              Group’s corporate objectives.
Control: Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, or is factually
inaccurate.                                                          This statement was approved by the Board on 14 April 2025.

                                                                                                                                                    85
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2024

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

  COMPOSITION                                                    Further details on the experience and qualifications of the
                                                                 AC members are available in the Annual Report under the
   The Audit Committee ("AC") comprises three (3)                Board of Directors’ Profiles.
   members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive
   Directors ("INED"):                                           MEETINGS
                                                                 The AC conducted seven (7) meetings during the financial
  1 Eugene Hon Kah Weng*                                         year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), details of which
                                                                 are set out as follows:
        Independent Non-Executive Director
        Chairman(a)                                              Name                           No. of Meetings
                                                                                                    Attended
 2 Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                                   Eugene Hon Kah Weng                     7/7
                                                                 Dr. Nik Ismail bin Nik Daud             7/7
        Senior Independent Non-Executive Director                Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz           3/3
        Member                                                   Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                4/4

 3 Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz                                 The Group Chief Executive Officer (“GCEO”), Company
                                                                 Secretaries, Financial Controller and Management were
        Independent Non-Executive Director                       invited to attend the meetings to present their reports and
        Member(b)                                                provide appropriate information as well as clarification to
                                                                 relevant items on the agenda. The Internal Auditors were
 4 Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim*                                     invited to present the internal audit reports to the AC during
                                                                 the AC meetings to present specific issues arising from
        Non-Independent Non-Executive Director                   audit findings. The External Auditors also attended the AC
        Chairman(c)                                              meeting to present their annual audit plan, annual financial
                                                                 statements and other matters deemed relevant.
   * Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA).
   Remarks:                                                      The AC Chairman reported to the Board activities and
   (a)	Re-designated from AC member to Chairman on 16 October   significant matters discussed at each AC meeting.
                                                                 Deliberations during the AC meetings were recorded.
         2024.                                                   Minutes of the AC meetings were tabled for confirmation at
   (b) Appointed as AC member on 1 October 2024.                 the following AC meeting and subsequently tabled to the
   (c)	Ceased as AC Chairman on 16 October 2024 in view of his  Board for notation.

         redesignation from INED to NINEC of the Board.             KEY ACTIVITIES IN FY2024

On 16 October 2024, Mr Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim was re-          Financial Reporting
designated from INED to Non-Independent Non-Executive            • Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval:
Chairman (“NINEC”) of the Board. Consequently, he ceased
to be the Chairman of the AC on the same day. In compliance         - quarterly unaudited financial results including
with paragraph 15.19 of the Main Market Listing Requirements           announcements to Bursa Securities; and
(“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”), Mr Eugene Hon Kah Weng was re-designated              - audited financial statements of the Company and its
from a member to the Chairman of the AC.                               subsidiaries (“the Group”) to reflect the true and fair
                                                                       view of the business results and financial position of the
The AC’s composition meets the MMLR of Bursa Securities                Group and that the financial statements were prepared
which requires that at least one member of the AC must                 in compliance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
fulfil the financial expertise requisite of paragraph 15.09(1)         Standards (MFRS).
(c) of MMLR of Bursa Securities. The AC Chairman is member
of the MIA and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public       • Deliberated all key accounting matters arose during the
Accountants (MICPA).                                                year; and

For the financial year under review, the Board of Directors      • Reviewed and deliberated on audit issues raised by the
(“Board”) evaluated the performance and effectiveness               External Auditors and the action plans required to address
of the AC via the Nominating Committee’s review of the              them.
term of office and performance of the AC and its members
and was satisfied that the AC members were able to and           External Audit (“EA”)
had discharged their functions and responsibilities in           • Reviewed and approved the external audit plan including
accordance with the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the AC.
                                                                    scope of works and approach for FY2024;
The role, scope and responsibilities of the AC are set out in
its TOR which are accessible on the Company’s website at
www.kawanfood.com.

86
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                           Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                  Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                                         AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

• Had two (2) meetings with the External Auditors without        • Reviewed and recommended for Board’s approval the
   the presence of the Management to discuss relevant               Circular to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
   issues and concerns arising from the audits;                     renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related
                                                                    party transactions of revenue or trading nature.
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board, the re-
   appointment of External Auditors, taking into consideration   Other Matters
   their competencies, commitments, independence and             • Be apprised of updates on key governance matters and
   objectivity; and
                                                                    observations in regards of the provisions set out in the
• Assessed the independence and objectivity of the External         Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 pursuant
   Auditors and recommended to the Board the audit and              to the MMLR of Bursa Securities;
   non-audit fees payable to External Auditors.                  • Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
                                                                    the Statement to Shareholders in relation to the proposed
Internal Audit (“IA”)                                               renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own
• Reviewed and approved the risk-based annual audit plan            ordinary shares;
                                                                 • Reviewed the proposed dividend payout taking into
   to ensure adequate scope and coverage of the Company’s           consideration the cash flow requirements before
   and the Group’s activities;                                      recommending for Board’s approval; and
• Reviewed internal audit reports on a quarterly basis,          • Reviewed and recommended for the Board’s approval,
   assessed internal control issues, evaluated management’s         the Audited financial statement, Management Discussion
   response to audit recommendations, and monitored the             and Analysis, Sustainability Statement, Statement on
   implementation of corrective actions;                            Risk Management and Internal Control, Audit Committee
• Reviewed follow-up audit reports to ensure the proper             Report, Corporate Governance Overview Statement and
   implementation of corrective actions by management               Corporate Governance Report for inclusion in the Annual
   and deliberated on outstanding issues to drive resolution        Report.
   and strengthen internal controls;
• Held private sessions with the Internal Auditors without the      INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
   presence of Management to discuss relevant issues and
   concerns arising from the audits; and                         The internal audit function of the Group is carried out jointly
• Reviewed effectiveness of the Internal Auditors by             by both an outsourced team and a newly established in-
   assessing their performance, adequacy of resources,           house internal audit team to provide independent and
   independence, and competencies of the Internal Auditors.      objective assurance on the adequacy, efficiency and
                                                                 effectiveness of internal controls.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the Group’s top risk profiles and deliberated on      The outsourced internal audit function is handled by Tricor
                                                                 Axcelasia Sdn Bhd, led by Ms. Sarine Loo ("Ms. Sarine"), a
   the significant threats and opportunities on a quarterly      professional member of the Institute of Internal Auditors
   basis;                                                        Malaysia (“IIAM”) with over 25 years of experience in risk
• Reviewed quarterly risk management reports on risk             management, internal audit, and corporate governance
   management activities, exposure and mitigating actions;       advisory services. The number of staff deployed for internal
• Reviewed, tracked and monitored, on an ongoing basis, the      audit reviews ranges from four (4) to five (5) per visit,
   effectiveness of the Group’s risk management systems; and     including the Engagement Director. These auditors hold
• Reviewed and recommended enhancement on the                    professional qualifications and/or university degrees, with
   Whistleblowing Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy and Anti-  some being members of IIAM.
   Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, where relevant.
                                                                 To strengthen internal oversight, the Group established an
Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) and Conflict of              in-house Internal Audit team headed by Ms. Ong Ying Yee, a
Interest (“COI”)                                                 Chartered Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
• Reviewed all RPTs on quarterly basis to ensure RPTs were       with over 12 years of internal audit experience in the
                                                                 manufacturing industry. She is supported by an auditor with
   carried out on an arm's length basis and on normal            a university degree, and together they work in coordination
   commercial terms, consistent with the Company and the         with the outsourced internal audit function to enhance audit
   Group’s usual business practices and policies, which are      effectiveness.
   not more favourable than those generally available to the
   third parties/public and are not to the detriment of the      All the internal audit staff, both outsourced and in-house,
   minority shareholders;                                        are free from any relationships or conflict of interest, which
• Reviewed and deliberated on RPTs , COI and potential           could impair their objectivity and independence.
   COI and reported to the Board any COI or potential COI
   situation including measures to resolve, eliminate or
   mitigate such conflicts, if any; and

                                                                                                                  87
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT

In accordance with the annual internal audit plan approved by the AC, the audited areas during FY2024 include strategic
planning, recurrent related party transaction, asset management and maintenance, sales and customer management,
procurement and supply chain, inventory management and cybersecurity control. Details of these audit areas are presented
in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control within this Annual Report.

The audits were performed using a risk-based approach and guidance from the International Professional Practice Framework.
The internal audit results comprising progress of previous auditable processes action plan were presented by the IA and
reviewed by the AC.

The total costs incurred for the IA function of the Group for the FY2024 was RM349,700.

Further details of the internal audit functions are available in the Annual Report under the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control.

88
Kawan At  This is Kawan      Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad        Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION

Pursuant to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad

MATERIAL CONTRACTS

There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interest which were still subsisting as at the end of the financial year ended or which were entered into since the end of the
previous financial year (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) except as disclosed below and in
Notes 35 to the financial statements under “Related Parties” on pages 168 to 169 of this Annual Report.

AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES

During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the amount of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the Company
and the Group to the external auditors are as follows:

                                            Company                             Group
                                                (RM)                             (RM)

Audit services rendered                     60,000                              288,896

Non-audit services rendered                 8,000                               8,000

Total                                       68,000                              296,896

UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS

There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposals during the financial year ended 31 December
2024.

RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE

At the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on Wednesday, 26 June 2024, the Company obtained a shareholders’
mandate to allow the Group to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature. The disclosure
of the recurrent related party transactions conducted during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 is set out on pages
168-169 of the Annual Report.

                                                                                             89
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    Statement on Directors’ Responsibility     91

    Directors’ Report                          92

    Statements of Financial Position           99

    Statements of Profit or Loss and Other

    Comprehensive Income                       101

    Statement of Changes in Equity             103

    Statements of Cash Flows                   105

    Notes to the Financial Statements          108

    Statement by Directors                     171

    Statutory Declaration                      171

    Independent Auditors’ Report               172

    OTHER INFORMATION

    List of Properties                         176

    Analysis on Shareholdings                  179

    Notice of the 21st Annual General Meeting  182

    Administrative Details                     189

    * Proxy Form

90
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

STATEMENT ON DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

The Board of Directors is required under Paragraph 15.26(a) of Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
to issue a statement explaining the Board’s responsibility in preparing the annual financial statements.

In preparing the annual financial statements of the Company and the Group, the Directors are collectively responsible to ensure
that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”)
so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the
financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended on that date.

In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024, the Directors have:

i) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
ii) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
iii) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
iv)	ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departure and explained in the financial

      statements.

The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Act.

The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

This Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 14 April 2025.

                                                                                         91
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD              ANNUAL REPORT 2024

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are manufacturing,
sale, exporting, trading and distribution of frozen food products, investment property, investment holding activities, rental of trucks,
engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing and exporting concentrated syrups
of various flavors as well as frozen fruit juices and information technology.

RESULTS

                               Group       Company
                                   RM                RM

Profit for the financial year  31,417,999  40,874,262

In the opinion of the directors, the financial results of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.

DIVIDEND
The amount of dividends paid by the Company since the end of previous financial year were as follows:

In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024, an interim single tier dividend of 4.2 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM14,703,023 was declared on 6 March 2024 and paid on 2 April 2024.
In respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024, a second interim single tier dividend of 2.8 sen per ordinary share totalling
RM9,687,351 was declared on 20 November 2024 and paid on 20 December 2024.

Subsequent to the end of the current financial year, the Board of Directors has approved a final single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per
ordinary share totalling RM6,802,080 was declared on 24 February 2025 and paid on 27 March 2025 in respect of the financial year
ended 31 December 2024.

The final dividend will be accounted for in the shareholders’ equity as appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending
31 December 2025.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the
financial statements.

ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES

During the financial year, the issued and paid up share capital of the Company was increased from RM184,889,706 to RM187,531,472
by way of an issue of 1,454,852 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Options Scheme at an exercise price
of RM1.65 per ordinary share.

The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company.

The Company did not issue any new debentures during the financial year.

92
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year apart from the issue
of options pursuant to the Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”).

At an extraordinary general meeting held on 31 May 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment of the ESOS of
not more than 15% of the issued share capital of the Company to eligible employees of the Group and of the Company.

The salient features of the ESOS are, inter alia, as follows:

(i) The ESOS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years commencing from the effective date on or before the expiry thereof,
        the Board of Directors shall have the sole and absolute discretion upon recommendation of the ESOS Committee, without the
        Company’s shareholders’ approval in a general meeting, to extend in writing the tenure of the ESOS for another five (5) years,
        or such shorter period as it deems fit immediately from the expiry of the first five (5) years, the ESOS shall not in aggregate
        exceed ten (10) years from the effective date of 2 October 2018 or such longer period as may be allowed by the relevant
        authorities;

        On 20 March 2023, the Company had announced the extension of the duration of the ESOS for another 5 years from 2 October
        2023 to 1 October 2028.

(ii) As of the date of offer, an employee who fulfils the following conditions shall be eligible to participate in the ESOS:

        (a) has attained eighteen (18) years of age;
        (b) is not an undischarged bankrupt nor subject to any bankruptcy proceedings;
        (c) must have been confirmed in service and have served at least six (6) months in the employment of the Group and of

                 the Company;
        (d) the employee is under an employment contract, which the contract is for a duration of at least one (1) year and shall

                 have not expired within three (3) months from the date of offer; and
        (e) has fulfilled any other criteria as may be imposed by the ESOS Committee from time to time.

(iii) The exercise price shall be determined by ESOS Committee and shall be based on the five (5)-day Volume Weighted Average
        Market Price (“VWAMP”) of the Company’s shares immediately preceding the date of offer, with a discount, if any, the such
        discount shall not be more than ten percent (10%);

(iv) The shares issued and allocated pursuant to the exercise of the options shall, upon issuance and allotment rank pari-passu
        in all respects with the then existing shares and be entitled to all rights (including voting, dividend, allotment, distribution,
        transfer and other rights, as well as those arising on a liquidation of the Company) attaching to the then existing shares, save
        and except that new shares so issued and allocated will not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments or other forms
        of distribution which may be declared, made or paid, for which entitlement date is prior to the date allotment of such new
        shares; and

(v) The eligible employees shall be entitled to exercise such number of the vested options within the option period and they shall
        have no right to exercise all or any of the options that have been granted but not vested to them.

                                                                                         93
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2024

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES (CONTINUED)
The salient features of the Scheme are, inter alia, as follows: (continued)
The options offered to take up unissued ordinary shares is as follows:

                                                 Number of options over ordinary shares

    Date of grant  Expiry date              At    Granted                    Exercised       Recycled                   At
                                    1.1.2024                                                                 31.12.2024
       28.7.2023     25.1.2024                               -                (250,000)                   -
       16.10.2023   31.12.2026      250,000                  -               (1,204,852)     (4,014,000)                  -
       18.12.2023   31.12.2026  27,960,000                   -                                                22,741,148
       19.9.2024    31.12.2027                   2,835,000                                -               -   1,800,000
                                  1,800,000      2,835,000                                -               -  2,835,000
                                              -                              (1,454,852)     (4,014,000)     27,376,148

                                30,010,000

DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The directors of the Company who held office during the financial year until the date of this report are:

Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                         (retired on 16 October 2024 and re-appointed on 9 April 2025)
Gan Thiam Chai 						
Gan Ka Bien                                      (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                      (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor                           (appointed on 1 October 2024)
Eugene Hon Kah Weng                              (appointed on 16 October 2024)
Gan Ka Hui 						                                (appointed on 24 February 2025)
Gan Meng Hoi 						                              (retired on 1 October 2024)
Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz 				               (retired on 1 October 2024)
Gan Ka Ooi						
Neel Naresh Nagrecha 					
Gan Thiam Hock 						
Kwan Sok Kay 						

DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES

Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of directors of the subsidiaries during the financial year and
up to the date of this report, excluding those who are already listed above are:

Gan Thiam Hock
Kwan Sok Kay
Lau Wing Hon

94
Kawan At  This is Kawan   Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good         Financial        Other
A Glance  Food Berhad     Review         Corporate Governance           Statements       Information

                                                                        DIRECTORS’ REPORT

DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS

Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than the
benefits shown under directors’ remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with a
director or with a firm of which a director is a member or with a company in which the director has a substantial financial interest,
other than certain directors, and the spouse of a director and children of certain directors who have significant financial interests
in companies which traded with certain companies within the Group in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 37 to
the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling directors of the Company
to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

The directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and
of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings
kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 were as follows:

                                                           Number of ordinary shares

                                            At 1.1.2024/   Acquired     (Disposed)                    At
                                                  date of                                31.12.2024/

                                         appointment                                          date of
                                                                                         retirement

THE COMPANY                                10,137,028                -                -  10,137,028
                                                        -  242,440
Direct interest                                                                       -  242,440
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                     462,000                 -
Gan Ka Bien                               22,462,133                 -                -  462,000
Gan Meng Hoi
Gan Thiam Hock                           126,257,402                 -                -  22,462,133
                                            3,010,666        18,000
Deemed interest                                                                       -  126,257,402
Gan Thiam Chai                           126,257,402                 -
Gan Thiam Hock                                                                        -  3,028,666
Kwan Sok Kay
                                                                                      -  126,257,402

                                                                                                      95
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2024

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

                               Number of share options over ordinary shares

                                                At  Granted  Exercised                  At
                                        1.1.2024                             31.12.2024
                                       /date of
                               appointment

THE COMPANY

Direct Interest                  450,000            -        -               450,000
Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim         450,000
Abdul Razak Bin Shakor           450,000            -        -               450,000
Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud      450,000
Eugene Hon Kah Weng            4,800,000            -        -               450,000
Gan Ka Bien                       102,000
Gan Meng Hoi                                        -        -               450,000

                                                    -        (242,440)       4,557,560

                                                    -        -               102,000

By virtue of their interests in the shares of the Company, the directors are also deemed to be interested in the shares of all the
subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.

None of the other directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations.

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

The amount of remuneration of the directors or past directors of the Company comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and the subsidiaries during the financial year are as follows:

                                                             Group       Company
                                                                  RM                RM

Executive directors                                            293,750       293,750
Fees                                                         3,297,256                -
Salaries and bonuses                                                                  -
Defined contribution benefits                                  398,254
Benefits-in-kind                                                314,273         4,000
Meeting allowances                                               43,000       43,000
                                                             4,346,533       340,750
Non-executive directors
Fees                                                          536,623         536,623
Salaries and bonuses                                          499,554                   -
Defined contribution benefits                                                           -
Benefits-in-kind                                                58,347
Meeting allowances                                              24,642          23,950
                                                               167,500         167,500
96                                                           1,286,666         728,073
                                                             5,633,199       1,068,823
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good                                  Financial         Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance                                    Statements        Information

                                                                                                DIRECTORS’ REPORT

INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS

During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for the directors and the officers of
the Group and of the Company are RM20,000,000 and RM37,810 respectively.

No indemnity has been given to or insurance premium paid, during or since the end of financial year, for the auditors of the Group
and of the Company.

SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.

AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amounts paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors are as follows:

Auditor’s remuneration:                                                                           Group           Company
- audit fees                                                                                           RM                   RM
- non-audit fees
                                                                                                288,896                60,000
                                                                                                   8,000                 8,000

                                                                                                296,896                68,000

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:

        (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision for
                 doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that there were no known bad debts to be written off and that adequate
                 provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

        (ii) to ensure that the current assets which were unlikely to realise their values as shown in the accounting records in the
                 ordinary course of business had been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

(b) At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:

        (i) which would require the write off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the financial
                 statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or

        (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
                 misleading; or

        (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and
                 of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or

        (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any
                 amount stated in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements misleading.

                                                                                                                               97
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD              ANNUAL REPORT 2024

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:

        (i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year which
                 secures the liabilities of any other person; or

        (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the directors:

        (i) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of
                 twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the Company
                 to meet their obligations as and when they fall due; and

        (ii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the financial
                 year and the date of this report which is likely to substantially affect the results of the operations of the Group and of the
                 Company for the current financial year.

AUDITORS
The auditors, RSM Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:

GAN THIAM CHAI			 GAN KA BIEN
Selangor
14 April 2025

98
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic          Our Commitment to Good        Financial       Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                 Corporate Governance          Statements      Information

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                          Note      Group               2023               Company  2023
                                                                          RM                          RM
                                                2024                                      2024
                                                  RM                                        RM

ASSETS                                    6     194,939,750   195,999,221                 -                -

Non-current assets                        7     16,748,863    16,886,380                  -                -
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets                       8     7,556,253     7,702,092                   -                -
Investment properties
Investments in subsidiaries               9     -                       -     63,685,397            65,317,252
Investment in an associate
Investment in a joint venture             10    -                       -                 -                -
Other investments
Deferred tax assets                       11    2,238,674     2,600,000                   -                -
Total non-current assets
                                          12    -                       -     122,000,000     122,000,000
Current assets
Other investments                         13    -             464,119                     -                -
Trade and other receivables
Inventories                                     221,483,540   223,651,812     185,685,397           187,317,252
Current tax assets
Prepayments                               12    8,377,211     9,240,224                    -                    -
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term                                      5,325,532             5,225,465
                                          14    110,797,926   78,682,061
   investments                                                                             -                    -
Total current assets                      15    37,399,506    36,429,562        503,053               1,527,130
TOTAL ASSETS
                                                1,358,585     3,106,097           40,326                 21,648
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
                                                6,550,387     5,345,260
Equity
Share capital                             16    71,520,511    104,301,693     9,896,601             12,492,614
Treasury shares
Reserves                                        236,004,126   237,104,897     15,765,512            19,266,857
TOTAL EQUITY
                                                457,487,666   460,756,709     201,450,909     206,584,109

                                          17    187,531,472   184,889,706     187,531,472     184,889,706

                                          18    (38,380,837)  (24,244,909) (38,380,837)       (24,244,909)

                                          19    240,501,003   232,520,964     49,992,651            32,081,395

                                                389,651,638   393,165,761     199,143,286           192,726,192

                                                                                                           99
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

                              Note                                        Group  2023          Company     2023
                                                                                   RM                        RM
                                                                      2024                    2024
                                                                        RM                      RM

LIABILITIES                   13    16,018,769                                   13,005,719   -                   -

Non-current liability               16,018,769                                   13,005,719   -                   -
Deferred tax liabilities
Total non-current liability   20    2,766,717                                    3,560,015    -                   -

Current liabilities           21    49,050,542                                   50,833,424   2,307,623    13,857,917
Loans and borrowings
Trade and other payables                                              -          191,790      -                   -
Current tax liabilities
Total current liabilities           51,817,259                                   54,585,229   2,307,623    13,857,917
TOTAL LIABILITIES
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES        67,836,028                                   67,590,948   2,307,623    13,857,917

                                    457,487,666                                  460,756,709  201,450,909  206,584,109

The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
100
Kawan At        This is Kawan       Our Strategic        Our Commitment to Good        Financial      Other
A Glance        Food Berhad         Review               Corporate Governance          Statements     Information

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                   Note      Group               2023               Company  2023
                                                                                   RM                          RM
                                                         2024                                      2024
                                                           RM                                        RM

Revenue                                            22    317,548,594   287,215,315     44,365,099            18,181,788

Cost of sales                                            (218,488,321) (205,148,099)               -               -

Gross profit                                             99,060,273    82,067,216      44,365,099            18,181,788

Other income                                       23    6,683,999     6,555,293                   -         13,495

Selling and distribution expenses                        (28,511,923)  (25,084,818)                -               -

Administrative expenses                                  (34,409,514)  (32,000,844)    (2,796,258)           (2,401,342)

Net(loss)/gain on foreign exchange                       (2,020,826)   2,336,759       (728,149)             1,273,656

Net gain/(loss) on impairment of financial assets        207,114       (92,795)                    -               -

Profit from operating actvities                          41,009,123    33,780,811      40,840,692            17,067,597

Finance income                                     24    1,199,590     1,165,003       98,535                112,935

Finance costs                                      25    (311,215)     (207,781)       (53,832)                    -

Share of loss of a joint venture                   11    (361,326)               -                 -               -

Share of loss of associate                         10    -             (471,711)                   -               -

Profit before taxation                             26    41,536,172    34,266,322      40,885,395            17,180,532

Taxation                                           27    (10,118,173)  (4,137,689)     (11,133)                    -

Profit for the financial year                            31,417,999    30,128,633      40,874,262            17,180,532

                                                                                                                   101
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                              ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                               Note                       Group  2023           Company    2023
                                                                                   RM                        RM
                                                                      2024                     2024
                                                                        RM                       RM

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS, NET OF TAX:          28    (474,954)                   (100,530)     -                       -
Item that may be reclassified subsequently to                                                              17,180,532
                                                     30,943,045                  30,028,103    40,874,262
   profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences for                  2024                      2023
                                                                sen                       sen
   foreign operations
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     29                     9.03       8.37

   FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR                      29                     8.42       8.18

EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE:
- Basic
- Diluted

The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
102
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                     Our Commitment to Good                   Financial       Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                            Corporate Governance                     Statements      Information

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                                             Attributable to owners of the Company

                                                                             Non-distributable                      Distributable

                                                                                           Share

                                                           Share Translation               option Treasury Retained                  Total
                                                                                                                                   equity
                                                           capital           reserve       reserve  shares earnings
                                                                                                                                        RM
                                                     Note  RM                RM            RM       RM              RM

Group                                                      184,889,706       8,248,271          - (1,345,429) 205,075,276 396,867,824
Balance as at 1.1.2023
                                                                          -             -       -   - 30,128,633 30,128,633
Profit for the financial year                                             -  (100,530)
Other comprehensive loss for the financial year                                                 -   -               -              (100,530)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial
                                                           -                 (100,530)          -   - 30,128,633 30,028,103
   year
                                                     30    -                 -                  -   - (13,021,188) (13,021,188)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
   - dividend to owners of the Company               19    -                 - 2,190,502            -               - 2,190,502
   - share options granted under ESOS
   - share buy-back                                  18    -                 -                  - (22,899,480)      - (22,899,480)

Total transactions with owners of the Company              -                 - 2,190,502 (22,899,480) (13,021,188) (33,730,166)

Balance as at 31.12.2023/1.1.2024                          184,889,706       8,147,741 2,190,502 (24,244,909) 222,182,721 393,165,761

Profit for the financial year                              -                 -                  -   - 31,417,999 31,417,999
Other comprehensive loss for the financial year
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the financial        - (474,954)                          -   -               - (474,954)

   year                                                    - (474,954)                          -   - 31,417,999 30,943,045

Contributions by and distributions to owners         30    -                 -                  -   - (24,390,374) (24,390,374)
   - dividend to owners of the Company
   - issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to ESOS    17    2,641,766         -                  -   -               - 2,641,766
   - share options granted under ESOS
   - share buy-back                                  19    -                 - 1,427,368            -               - 1,427,368

Total transactions with owners of the Company        18    -                 -                  - (14,135,928)      - (14,135,928)

Balance as at 31.12.2024                                   2,641,766         - 1,427,368 (14,135,928) (24,390,374) (34,457,168)

                                                           187,531,472 7,672,787 3,617,870 (38,380,837) 229,210,346 389,651,638

The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
                                                                                                                                                                         103
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                             Non-distributable                    Distributable

                                    Note   Share               Share            Treasury          Retained          Total
                                          capital             option               shares         earnings        equity
                                                             reserve                     RM
                                                RM                                                         RM          RM
                                                                    RM

Company

Balance as at 1.1.2023                    184,889,706                 -         (1,345,429)       25,731,549      209,275,826
                                                         -
Profit and total comprehensive                                        -         -                 17,180,532      17,180,532
   income for the financial year

Contributions by and distributions
   to owners

- dividend to owners of the

Company                             30                    -           -         -                 (13,021,188)    (13,021,188)
                                                          -
- share options granted under                             -
                                                          -
ESOS                                19    184,889,706        2,190,502                         -  -               2,190,502
                                                                        -       (22,899,480)
- share buy-back                    18                    -                                       -               (22,899,480)

Total transactions with owners of                            2,190,502          (22,899,480)        (13,021,188)  (33,730,166)
   the Company                                               2,190,502          (24,244,909)      29,890,893      192,726,192

Balance as at 31.12.2023/1.1.2024

Profit and total comprehensive                                        -         -                 40,874,262      40,874,262
   income for the financial year

Contributions by and distributions
   to owners

- dividend to owners of the

Company                             30                   -            -         -                 (24,390,374) (24,390,374)
                                            2,641,766
- issuance of ordinary shares
                                                         -
pursuant to ESOS                    17                   -            -         -                 -               2,641,766
                                            2,641,766
- share options granted under             187,531,472

ESOS                                19                       1,427,368                         -  -               1,427,368
                                                                         -      (14,135,928)
- share buy-back                    18                                                            -               (14,135,928)

Total transactions with owners of                            1,427,368          (14,135,928) (24,390,374) (34,457,168)
   the Company                                               3,617,870

Balance as at 31.12.2024                                                        (38,380,837)      46,374,781      199,143,286

The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
104
Kawan At            This is Kawan          Our Strategic     Our Commitment to Good              Financial           Other
A Glance            Food Berhad            Review            Corporate Governance                Statements          Information

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                  Note           Group               2023                     Company  2023
                                                                                       RM                                RM
                                                             2024                                            2024
                                                               RM                                              RM

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Profit before taxation                                       41,536,172         34,266,322       40,885,395            17,180,532

Adjustments for:

Depreciation of investment properties                     8      145,839            145,838                      -                  -
                                                             18,407,353          19,162,255                      -                  -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment             6                                                      -                  -
                                                                338,638             338,613                      -                  -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                       7    1,451,034           905,647       (44,365,099)          (18,181,788)
                                                                                                     1,427,368          2,190,502
Property, plant and equipment written off         26                       -                 -         (98,535)           (112,935)
                                                               1,427,368          2,190,502            1,001,571                    -
Dividends income                                  22          (1,199,590)        (1,165,003)                     -                  -
                                                                                                                 -                  -
Employees' share options scheme expenses          26                       -                 -                   -                  -
                                                                 396,188           267,593                       -                  -
Interest income                                   24           (603,302)           (174,798)                      -                 -
                                                             4,603,496            5,073,310                      -                  -
Impairment loss on investment in subsidiaries             9  (2,713,547)        (2,963,925)
                                                              3,052,750          2,404,240                                          -
Impairment loss on trade receivables              26                                 207,781                                        -
                                                                   117,318                                                          -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables  26                                                                                -
                                                                1,912,371                                              (1,273,656)
Provision for slow moving inventories             15            385,380                                                             -
                                                                                                                                    -
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer required 15                -
                                                                 477,633
Inventories written off                           15          (1,199,356)
                                                                 361,326
Interest expense                                  25
                                                                           -
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and

equipment                                         26                              (34,496)                -
                                                                                           -              -
Loss on disposal of investment in quoted shares   26                                                      -
                                                                                 544,203                  -
Loss from disposal of an associate                26                              558,812        728,149
                                                                                (1,178,362)               -
Fair value loss on financial assets               26                                                      -
                                                                                           -
Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange        26                                471,711

Share of loss in a joint venture                  26

Share of loss in an associate                     26

Operating profit/(loss) before working capital                 68,897,071        61,020,243           (421,151)           (197,345)
   changes
                                                              (5,970,254)          1,090,617                    -                    -
Movement in inventories
Movement in trade and other receivables,                     (32,896,889)        (8,514,758)          (46,580)         10,600,395
                                                                   (67,785)       7,002,203           (92,367)          13,625,752
   prepayments and other financial assets
Movement in trade and other payables                           29,962,143       60,598,305          (560,098)          24,028,802

Cash generated from/(used in) operations                                     -                -  44,365,099              13,021,188
                                                               (7,061,258)       (3,199,936)           (71,056)            (116,050)
Dividends received                                                                                                        1,076,819
                                                                  1,120,751         1,638,571      1,084,000                         -
Income tax paid                                                     (117,318)       (207,781)                   -            112,935
                                                                 1,199,590         1,165,003
Income tax refunded                                                                                    98,535          38,123,694
                                                               25,103,908       59,994,162                                       105
Interest paid                                     25                                             44,916,480

Interest received                                 24

Net cash generated from operating activities
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

                                                                                Note      Group       2023               Company           2023
                                                                                                        RM                                   RM
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                                  2024                              2024
                                                                                        RM                                RM
Advances to subsidiaries
Repayment from subsidiaries                                                           -               -                 (72,165)            -
Investment in a joint venture
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and                                         -               -                 (11,457,927)        -

   equipment                                                                          -               (2,500,000)       -                   -
Proceeds from disposal of an associate
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                             2,974,318       611,928           -                   -
Placement in other investments
                                                                                      -               600,000           -                   -
Net cash used in investing activities
                                                                                      (25,659,715)    (5,824,333)       -                   -
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
                                                                                      -               ( 7,000,000)      -                   -
Dividends paid to owners of the Company
Issuance of new shares                                                                (22,685,397)    (14,112,405)      (11,530,092)        -
Repayment of loans and borrowings
Share buy-back                                                                        (24,390,374)      (13,021,188)    (24,390,374)         (13,021,188)
                                                                                          2,641,766                  -      2,641,766                     -
Net cash used in financing activities                                                      (634,517)                                    -                 -
                                                                                                         (2,914,361)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH                                               (14,135,928)   (22,899,480)       (14,135,928)      (22,899,480)
   EQUIVALENTS
                                                                                      (36,519,053)    (38,835,029) (35,884,536)            (35,920,668)
Effect of foreign exchange differences
                                                                                      (34,100,542)      7,046,728       (2,498,148)         2,203,026
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BROUGHT FORWARD                                                 1,319,360    (1,326,697)          (97,865)           63,655
                                                                                                      98,581,662
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CARRIED FORWARD 16                                          104,301,693     104,301,693       12,492,614         10,225,933
                                                                                         71,520,511                      9,896,601         12,492,614

106
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                 Our Commitment to Good                    Financial      Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                        Corporate Governance                      Statements     Information

                                                                                        STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                                    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities is as follows:

                                                 Note      Group                    2023                      Company  2023
                                                  25                                  RM                                 RM
                                                  25   2024                                                  2024
                                                  26     RM                                                    RM

Term loans                                             3,560,015                    6,398,772                -               -
At 1 January
Cash flows:                                               (117,318)                  (207,781)               -               -
Interest paid                                           (634,517)                   (2,914,361)
Repayments of borrowings                                                                                     -               -

Non-cash changes:                                         117,318                      207,781               -               -
Interest charged during the financial year              (158,781)                      75,604
Effect of movements in exchange rate                   2,766,717                    3,560,015                -               -
At 31 December
                                                                                                             -               -
Cash outflows for leases as lessee
Included in net cash from operating activities:        993,422                      1,021,839                -               -
Payment relating to short-term leases                  993,422                      1,021,839
Total cash outflows for leases                                                                               -               -

The annexed notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
                                                                                                                                                                         107
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

1. PRINCIPAL ACITIVITIES

        The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are
        manufacturing, sale, exporting, trading and distribution of frozen food products, investment property, investment holding
        activities, rental of trucks, engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing and
        exporting concentrated syrups of various flavors as well as frozen fruit juices and information technology.

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
        Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”) issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”), International Financial
        Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION

        (a) Basis of accounting

                 The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention.

                 The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
                 reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In
                 addition, the directors are also required to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
                 The areas involving such judgements, estimates and assumptions are disclosed in Note 5. Although these estimates
                 and assumptions are based on the directors’ best knowledge of events and actions, actual results could differ from
                 those estimates.

        (b) Basis of consolidation

                 (i) Subsidiaries

                         The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that
                         control commences until the date that control ceases.

                         Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investment
                         includes transaction costs.

                         The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by
                         the Group.

                 (ii) Associate

                         Associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment
                         is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the investor’s share of
                         comprehensive income of the associate. On acquisition of the investment, the associate’s identifiable assets and
                         liabilities are measured at fair value. Any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s share of the net
                         fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill and included in the carrying
                         amount of the investment. Goodwill is tested for impairment together with the investment at the end of each
                         reporting period when there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired. Any excess of the Group’s
                         share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognised in
                         consolidated profit or loss.

108
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (b) Basis of consolidation (continued)

                 (ii) Associate (continued)

                         The Group’s share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the profit or loss, and its share
                         of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
                         The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.

                         Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the investment.

                         If the Group’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not
                         provide for additional losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.

                         Profits or losses on Group transactions with associate is eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
                         relevant associate.

                         When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in the former
                         associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and this amount is regarded
                         as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. The difference between the fair value of any retained interest
                         plus proceeds from the interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
                         method is discontinued is recognised in the profit or loss.

                         When the Group’s interest in associate decreases but does not result in a loss of significant influence, any retained
                         interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any
                         gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the
                         profit or loss if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related
                         assets or liabilities.

                         Investment in associate is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any impairment
                         losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments includes
                         transaction costs.

                 (iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests

                         The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
                         as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling interest holders. Any difference between the
                         Group’s share of net assets before and after the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or
                         against Group reserves.

                 (iv) Loss of control

                         Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the former subsidiary,
                         any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the former subsidiary from the
                         consolidated statement of financial position. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in
                         profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
                         at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as equity accounted investee or as a financial
                         asset at FVPL depending on the level of influence retained.

                                                                                         109
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (b) Basis of consolidation (continued)

                 (v) Joint arrangements

                         A joint arrangement (i.e. either a joint operation or a joint venture, depending on the rights and obligations of the
                         jointly controlling parties to the arrangement), is one in which the Group is party to an arrangement of which two
                         or more parties have joint control, which is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the arrangement; it exists
                         only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.

                         Jointly controlled entities are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method less
                         any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution (or included in a disposal group that is
                         classified as held for sale or distribution). The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the
                         profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity-accounted joint ventures, after adjustments, if any, to
                         align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that joint control ceases.

                         When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted joint venture, the carrying amount
                         of that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to zero and the recognition of further losses is
                         discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the joint
                         venture.

                         Joint venture is an entity over which the Group has the power to participate in its financial and operating policy
                         decisions, but which is not control or joint control. Joint venture is accounted for using the equity method of
                         accounting.

                         Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less any
                         impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
                         includes transaction costs.

                 (vi) Non-controlling interests

                         Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not attributable directly
                         or indirectly to the owners of the Company, are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position and
                         statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
                         Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group are presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss
                         and other comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for the year
                         between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.

                         Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests
                         even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.

                 (vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                         Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
                         transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

                         Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent
                         of the Group’s interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but
                         only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.

110
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (c) Foreign currency

                 (i) Foreign currency transaction

                         Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at
                         exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.

                         Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are retranslated
                         to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.

                         Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of the
                         reporting period, except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at
                         the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.

                         Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising
                         on the retranslation of equity instruments where they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive
                         income or a financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive
                         income.

                         In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a
                         foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and
                         losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation
                         and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation reserve
                         (“FCTR”) in equity.

                 (ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)

                         The assets and liabilities of operations in functional currencies other than RM, including goodwill and fair value
                         adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period,
                         except for goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the
                         date when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the Group and of the
                         Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of
                         the transactions.

                         Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the FCTR in
                         equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the
                         translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of such
                         that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign
                         operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.

                         When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant
                         proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only
                         part of its investment in a joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining joint control, the relevant
                         proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.

                                                                                         111
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (d) Financial instruments

                 (i) Financial assets

                         For the purpose of subsequent measurement, the Group or the Company classify financial assets into two
                         measurement categories, namely: (i) financial assets at amortised cost (“AC”) and (ii) financial assets at fair
                         value through profit or loss (“FVPL”). The classification is based on the Group’s and the Company’s business
                         model objective for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial
                         instruments.

                         After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure financial assets, as follows:

                         (i) Financial assets at AC

                                  A financial asset is measured at AC if: (a) it is held within the Group’s and the Company’s business objective
                                  to hold the asset only to collect contractual cash flows, and (b) the contractual terms of the financial asset
                                  give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest in principal
                                  outstanding.

                         (ii) Financial assets at FVPL

                                  A financial asset is measured at FVPL if it is an equity investment, held for trading (including derivative
                                  assets) or if it does not meet any of the condition specified for the AC model.

                         Other than financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, all other financial assets are subject to
                         review for impairment in accordance with Note 3(j)(i).

                 (ii) Financial liabilities

                         After initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure all financial liabilities at amortised cost using the
                         effective interest method, except for:

                         Financial guarantee contracts is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the
                         holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the
                         original or modified terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value.
                         Subsequently, they are measured at higher of: (a) the amount of the loss allowance; and (b) the amount initially
                         recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative of income recognised in accordance with the principles in
                         MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

                 (iii) Recognition of gains and losses

                         Fair value changes of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as at fair value through profit or loss are
                         recognised in profit or loss when they arise.

                         For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost, interest income and interest expense are
                         recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. A gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss only
                         when the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired, and through the amortisation process of
                         the instrument.

112
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic              Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                     Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (d) Financial instruments (continued)

                 (iv) Equity investments

                         The Group measures all equity investments at fair value. For equity investments at FVPL, changes in fair value are
                         recognised in profit or loss. Where the Group has elected to present the changes in fair value in other comprehensive
                         income, the amounts presented are not subsequently transferred to profit or loss when the equity investments are
                         derecognised. The cumulative gains or losses is transferred to retained profits instead. The election is made on
                         an instrument-by-instrument basis and it is irrevocable. The amount presented in other comprehensive income
                         includes the related foreign exchange gains or losses.

                         Dividend income from equity investments at FVPL and fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”)
                         is recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Group's right to receive payment has been established.

                         Changes in the fair value of equity investments at FVPL are recognised in other income or expenses, as applicable,
                         in the profit or loss. Impairment losses or reversal of impairment losses on equity instruments measured at FVOCI
                         are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.

        (e) Property, plant and equipment

                 (i) Recognition and measurement

                         Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
                         accumulated impairment losses.

                         Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that
                         equipment.

                         The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the proceeds
                         from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net within “other
                         income” and “administrative expenses” respectively in profit or loss.

                 (ii) Depreciation

                         Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual assets
                         are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset, then that
                         component is depreciated separately.

                         Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
                         component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.

                         The estimated useful lives of other property, plant and equipment for the current and previous years are as follows:

          Buildings                                                                     40 to 50 years
          Apartments                                                                            50 years
          Motor vehicles
          Furniture, fittings and office equipment                                        5 to 10 years
          Plant and machinery                                                             3 to 10 years
          Renovation
          Signage                                                                                10 years
                                                                                                 10 years
                                                                                                 10 years

                                                                                                     113
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (e) Property, plant and equipment (continued)

                 (ii) Depreciation (continued)

                         Capital work in progress is not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.

                         Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period, and
                         adjusted as appropriate.

        (f) Leases

                 (i) Recognition and initial measurement

                         (a) As a lessee

                                  The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
                                  of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
                                  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and
                                  an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the
                                  site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

                                  The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
                                  commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily
                                  determined, the respective Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
                                  incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.

                                  Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:

                                  • fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentive receivable;
                                  • variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate

                                          at the commencement date;
                                  • amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
                                  • the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise; and
                                  • penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early.

                                  The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or usage of the underlying
                                  asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which
                                  the performance or use occurs.

                                  The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
                                  have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease
                                  payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

114
Kawan At  This is Kawan          Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad            Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (f) Leases (continued)

                 (i) Recognition and initial measurement (continued)

                         (b) As a lessor

                                  When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or
                                  an operating lease.

                                  To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers substantially
                                  all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease
                                  is a finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.

                                  If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies MFRS 15 to allocate the
                                  consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone selling prices.

                 (ii) Subsequent measurement

                         (a) As a lessee

                                  The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
                                  date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
                                  estimated useful lives of right-of-use asset are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant
                                  and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and
                                  adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.

                                  The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
                                  there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of
                                  in-substance fixed lease payments, or if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected
                                  to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will
                                  exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.

                                  When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the
                                  right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been
                                  reduced to zero.

                         (b) As a lessor

                                  The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on straight-line basis
                                  over the lease term as part of “other income”.

                 (iii) Depreciation

                         Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably
                         certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Leasehold lands are amortised over the
                         remaining lease periods ranging from 64 to 80 years.

                         The estimated useful life of leased assets for the current and previous years are as follows:

          Prepaid lease payment                                                     33 years

                                                                                                 115
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (g) Investment properties

                 (i) Investment properties carried at cost

                         Investment properties are properties which are owned to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for
                         both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or
                         for administrative purposes. These include freehold land and leasehold land which in substance is a lease held
                         for a currently undetermined future use. Properties that are occupied by the Group are accounted for as owner-
                         occupied rather than as investment properties. Investment properties are measured at cost are accounted for
                         similarly to property, plant and equipment.

                         Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment properties. The cost of
                         self-constructed investment properties includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly
                         attributable to bringing the investment properties to a working condition for their intended use and capitalised
                         borrowing costs. Right-of-use asset held under a lease contract that meets the definition of investment property
                         is initially measured similarly as other right-of-use assets.

                         An investment property is derecognised on disposal, or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future
                         economic benefits are expected from its disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
                         carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the item is derecognised.

                         Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 50 years for
                         buildings and over the remaining lease periods of 83 years for leasehold land. Freehold land is not depreciated.

                 (ii) Determination of fair value

                         The directors estimate the fair values of the Group’s investment properties without the involvement of independent
                         valuers.

                         The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged
                         on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s length transaction after proper
                         marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably.

        (h) Inventories

                 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

                 The cost of inventories is measured based on the weighted average cost method, and includes expenditure incurred
                 in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing
                 location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads
                 based on normal operating capacity.

                 Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
                 completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

        (i) Cash and cash equivalents

                 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid
                 investments that are readily convertible to known amount of cash with insignificant risk of changes in fair value.

116
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (j) Impairment

                 (i) Financial assets

                         The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses on financial assets measured
                         at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                         The Group and the Company measure loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses,
                         except for cash and bank balance. Loss allowances for trade receivables is always measured at an amount equal
                         to lifetime expected credit loss.

                         When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition
                         and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable
                         information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and
                         qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
                         and including forward-looking information, where available.

                         Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
                         expected life of the asset, while 12 months expected losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from
                         default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
                         estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group and the Company are
                         exposed to credit risk.

                         The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables using a provision matrix
                         with reference to historical credit loss experiences.

                         An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised in profit or loss and
                         the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account.

                         At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised cost are
                         credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on
                         the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

                         The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there is
                         no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the Company determine that
                         the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generated sufficient cash flows to repay the
                         amounts subject to write-off. However, financial assets that are written-off could still be subject to enforcement
                         activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery amounts due.

                 (ii) Other assets

                         The carrying amount of the other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax assets) are reviewed at the end
                         of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists,
                         then the assets recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful
                         lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each period at the same time.

                         For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
                         generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or
                         cash generating units. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is
                         allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

                                                                                                                                                                          117
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (j) Impairment (continued)

                 (ii) Other assets (continued)

                         The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value
                         less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
                         using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
                         specific to the asset or the cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses
                         are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units (groups of
                         cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the cash-generating unit
                         (groups of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.

                         An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised
                         in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications that the loss has decreased
                         or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine
                         the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the
                         extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined,
                         net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses
                         are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.

        (k) Share-based payments

                 Share-based payments of the Group and of the Company are equity-settled share options granted to employees, for
                 which an option pricing model is used to estimate the fair value at grant date. That fair value is charged on a straight-
                 line basis as an expense in the profit or loss over the period that the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the
                 options (vesting period), with a corresponding increase in equity.

                 The number of such options is adjusted annually to reflect best estimates of those expected to vest (ignoring purely
                 market-based conditions) with consequent changes to the expense. Equity is also increased by the proceeds receivable,
                 as and when employees choose to exercise their options.

                 If the Group and the Company modify the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, as a
                 minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted (unless those
                 equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition other than a market condition) are
                 charged to the profit or loss.

                 Cancellations of grants of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by forfeiture when
                 the vesting conditions are not satisfied) are accounted for as an acceleration of vesting, therefore the unrecognised
                 remaining amount is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

118
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (l) Revenue and other income

                 (i) Revenue

                         Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange for
                         transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
                         recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred
                         when (or as) the customer obtains control of the assets.

                         The Group transfers control of goods or services at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria is
                         met:

                         (a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs;
                         (b) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or

                                  enhanced; or
                         (c) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable

                                  right to payment for performance completed to date.

                         Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration which the Group expects to receive, based on the list price
                         applicable to a given distribution channel after deduction of returns, trade discounts, rebates and price promotions
                         to consumers. The level of discounts, allowances and promotional rebates is recognised as a deduction from
                         revenue at the time that the related sales are recognised or when the rebate is offered to the customer (or
                         consumer if applicable). They are estimated using judgements based on historical experience and the specific
                         terms of the agreements with the customers.

                 (ii) Dividend income

                         Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s right to receive payment is
                         established.

                 (iii) Rental income

                         Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the
                         lease. Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the
                         lease. Rental income from subleased property is recognised as other income.

                 (iv) Finance income

                         Finance income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss except for finance
                         income arising from temporary investment of borrowings taken specifically for the purpose of obtaining a
                         qualifying asset which is accounted for in accordance with accounting policy on borrowing costs.

                                                                                         119
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

        (m) Borrowing costs

                 Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
                 recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.

                 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets
                 that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of
                 the cost of those assets.

                 Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying
                 assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS

        4.1 Amendments to MFRSs adopted

                 For the preparation of the financial statements, the following amendments to the MFRSs issued by the MASB are
                 mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2024:

                 • Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases - Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
                 • Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements - Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
                 • Amendments to MFRS 107 Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures -

                         Supplier Finance Arrangements

                 The adoption of the above-mentioned amendments to MFRSs has no significant impact on the financial statements of
                 the Group and of the Company.

        4.2 New MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs not yet effective

                 The following are new MFRSs and amendments to the MFRSs that have been issued by the MASB up to the date of the
                 issuance of the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements but have not been adopted by the Group and the
                 Company:

                 Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025

                 • Amendments to MFRS 121 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates - Lack of Exchangeability

                 Amendments to MFRS effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026

                 • Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Amendments to the
                         Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments

                 • Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments and MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Contracts
                         Referencing Nature-dependent Electricity

                 • Annual Improvement to MFRS Accounting Standards - Volume 11

                 New MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027

                 • MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
                 • MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures

120
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

4. ADOPTION OF MFRSs, AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs AND INTERPRETATIONS (CONTINUED)

        4.2 New MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs not yet effective (continued)

                 Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed

                 • Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investment in Associates and Joint
                         Ventures - Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

                 The directors anticipate that the above-mentioned new MFRSs and amendments will be adopted by the Group and the
                 Company when they become effective.

                 The initial application of the new MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs is not expected to have any significant impact on
                 the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.

5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

        In preparing its financial statements, the Group and the Company have made significant judgements, estimates and
        assumptions that impact on the carrying value of certain assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as other information
        reported in the notes. The Group and the Company periodically monitor such estimates and assumptions and makes sure
        they incorporate all relevant information available at the date when financial statements are prepared. However, this does
        not prevent actual figures differing from estimates.

        The judgements made in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies that have the most
        significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and the estimates and assumptions that have a
        significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year
        are addressed below.

        (a) Impairment of non-financial assets

                 The Group and the Company assess whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each
                 reporting date. Non-financial assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators that the carrying amount may
                 not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its
                 recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.

                 The carrying amount of the non-financial assets are disclosed in Notes 6 to 11 respectively.

        (b) Loss allowances of financial assets

                 The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial
                 asset is impaired. To determine whether there is objective evidence of impairment, the Group and the Company consider
                 factors such as the probability of insolvency, significant financial difficulties of the receivables, default or significant
                 delay in payments, current economic trends and forward-looking information that is available.

                 Where there is objective evidence of impairment, the amount and timing of future cash flows are estimated based on
                 historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.

                                                                                         121
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS (CONTINUED)

        (c) Net realisable value of inventories

                 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is written down to their
                 estimated realisable value when their cost may no longer be recoverable such as when inventories are damaged
                 or become wholly or partly obsolete or their selling prices have declined. In any case, the realisable value represents
                 the best estimate of the recoverable amount, is based on the most reliable evidence available at the reporting date
                 and inherently involves estimates regarding the future expected realisable value. The benchmarks for determining the
                 amount of write-downs to net realisable value include ageing analysis, technical assessment and subsequent events.
                 In general, such an evaluation process requires significant judgement and may materially affect the carrying amount
                 of inventories at the reporting date (as reflected in Note 15).

        (d) Rebates and promotions accruals

                 Rebates and promotions accruals of approximately RM8.1 million (2023: RM6.2 million), which consists primarily of
                 conditional rebates and promotions, are based on agreed trading terms and promotional activities with trade customers
                 and distributors. Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the expected rebates,
                 promotional activities and historical experience based on estimated sales volume. These accruals are reported within
                 trade and other payables (Note 21). The estimates for these accruals are regularly reviewed by senior management of
                 the Company.

122
Kawan At     This is Kawan        Our Strategic      Our Commitment to Good     Financial                  Other
A Glance     Food Berhad          Review             Corporate Governance       Statements                 Information

                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                            Motor      Furniture,    Plant and                               Capital
                                         vehicles          fittings                                          work in
                   Buildings Apartments                              machinery Renovations     Signage     progress     Total
                                                 RM   and office                                       RM                  RM
                   RM             RM                 equipment       RM         RM                                  RM

                                                                 RM

Group

Cost

At 1 January 2023 120,844,476     515,912 5,985,130 15,489,924 170,591,973 8,588,466           287,029 4,264,837 326,567,747
                                                                                                        - 577,428 5,824,333
Additions                   -     - 1,010,822        517,958         3,718,125  -                       - (577,428) (749,873)
                                                                                                        - (628,143) (905,647)
Disposals                   -     - (162,095)        (10,350)        -          -

Written off                 -     -              -   -               (277,504)  -

Effect of          504,024        - 26,429           355,141          237,997   -              -           - 1,123,591
   movements in                                      53,255          3,164,373
   exchange rates

Reclassification            -     -              -                              -              - (3,217,628)            -

At 31 December     121,348,500    515,912 6,860,286 16,405,928 177,434,964      8,588,466      287,029     419,066 331,860,151
   2023/                                                                         896,425         1,500              - 25,659,715
   1 January 2024                                                                           -           -           - (17,167,070)
                                                                                            -           -           - (7,887,845)
Additions                   -     -              -   498,863 24,262,927

Disposals                   -     - (1,437,002)      - (15,730,068)

Written off                 -     - (460,714) (165,673) (7,261,458)

Effect of          (1,199,356)    - (62,889)         (128,166) (1,277,442)      -              -           - (2,667,853)
   movements in
   exchange rates

Reclassification            -     -              -   -               341,990    -              - (341,990)              -

At 31 December     120,149,144    515,912 4,899,681 16,610,952 177,770,913 9,484,891 288,529 77,076 329,797,098
   2024

                                                                                                                        123
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

                                                  Motor       Furniture,    Plant and                              Capital
                                               vehicles           fittings                                         work in
                        Buildings Apartments                                machinery Renovations    Signage     progress     Total
                                                       RM    and office                                      RM                  RM
                        RM             RM                   equipment       RM           RM                               RM

                                                                        RM

     Group              14,617,855     188,872 3,590,654 9,079,562 81,896,157            6,189,576 139,903       - 115,702,579
                        2,423,004
     Accumulated                       10,741  1,080,773    1,701,563       13,553,211   368,240     24,723      - 19,162,255
        depreciation                -       -  (162,092)     (10,349)                 -           -        -
                                                                                                                 -            (172,441)
     At 1 January 2023      126,881
                                       -       22,592       34,975          382,135      -           -           - 566,583
     Charge for the                 -
        financial year                 -       -            119,339         -            -           -           -            119,339
                        17,167,740
     Disposals           2,197,523     199,613 4,531,927 10,925,090 95,831,503 6,557,816 164,626                 - 135,378,315

     Effect of                     -   10,741 869,918       1,301,981 13,628,857         373,611     24,722      - 18,407,353
        movements in               -         - (1,384,803)           - (10,895,578)             -           -    - (12,280,381)
        exchange rates                       - (403,084)                                        -           -    - (6,436,811)
                                    -                       (129,824) (5,903,903)
     Transfer from
        right-of-use       (69,012)    -       -            -               458,226      -           -           - 458,226
        assets
                                   -   - (40,164)           52,957          (726,443)    -           -           - (782,662)
     At 31 December     19,296,251
        2023/                          -       -            113,308         -            -           -           -            113,308
        1 January 2024
                                       210,354 3,573,794 12,263,512 92,392,662           6,931,427 189,348       - 134,857,348
     Charge for the
        financial year

     Disposals

     Written off

     Reclass of
        impairment
        loss

     Effect of
        movements in
        exchange rates

     Transfer from
        right-of-use
        assets

     At 31 December
        2024

124
Kawan At       This is Kawan     Our Strategic       Our Commitment to Good     Financial               Other
A Glance       Food Berhad       Review              Corporate Governance       Statements              Information

                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

                                            Motor      Furniture,    Plant and                            Capital
                                         vehicles          fittings                                       work in
                   Buildings Apartments                              machinery Renovations  Signage     progress     Total
                                                 RM   and office                                    RM                  RM
                   RM            RM                  equipment       RM         RM                               RM

                                                                 RM

Group

Accumulated
   impairment
   loss

At 1 January 2023             -  -              -    -               472,366    -           -           - 472,366

Effect of

movements in

exchange rates                -  -              -    -               10,249     -           -           -            10,249

At 31 December

2023/

1 January 2024                -  -              -    -               482,615    -           -           - 482,615

Reclass of

impairment loss               -  -              -    - (458,226)                -           -           - (458,226)

Effect of

movements in

exchange rates                -  -              -    -               (24,389)   -           -           - (24,389)

At 31 December

2024                          -  -              -    -               -          -           -           -            -

Carrying amounts

At 31 December     104,180,760   316,299 2,328,359 5,480,838 81,120,846 2,030,650 122,403 419,066 195,999,221
   2023

At 31 December     100,852,893   305,558 1,325,887 4,347,440 85,378,251 2,553,464           99,181 77,076 194,939,750
   2024

(a) Apartments

        The strata title for apartments with net carrying amount of RM142,597 (2023: RM147,586) have yet to be issued to a
        subsidiary.

(b) Security

        Buildings with net carrying amount of RM17,142,311 (2023: RM18,054,702) have been charge to licensed banks for banking
        facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).

                                                                                                                     125
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

                                                Leasehold       Prepaid lease       Total
                                                       lands         payments          RM
                                                           RM                   RM

     Group                                      16,737,790      4,052,209           20,789,999
     Cost                                                    -      87,922                 87,922
     At 1 January 2023
     Effect of movements in exchange rates      16,737,790       4,140,131           20,877,921
     At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024                      -   (209,221)              (209,221)
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                      3,930,910
     At 31 December 2024                        16,737,790                          20,668,700

     Accumulated depreciation                    2,442,500      1,296,708           3,739,208
     At 1 January 2023                              201,066        137,547             338,613
     Charge for the financial year                           -    (119,339)           (119,339)
     Transfer to property, plant and equipment               -      33,059              33,059
     Effect of movements in exchange rates
     At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024         2,643,566       1,347,975           3,991,541
     Charge for the financial year                 201,068        137,570            338,638
     Transfer to property, plant and equipment               -   (113,308)           (113,308)
     Effect of movements in exchange rates                   -                      (297,034)
     At 31 December 2024                                        (297,034)           3,919,837
                                                2,844,634       1,075,203

     Carrying amounts                           14,094,224      2,792,156           16,886,380
     At 31 December 2023

     At 31 December 2024                        13,893,156      2,855,707           16,748,863

     (a) Lands

             The lands are wholly related to leasehold lands with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.

     (b) Prepaid lease payments

             The prepaid lease payments are wholly related to a leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years.
             The prepaid lease payments are not transferable and have a remaining tenure of 32 years (2023: 33 years).

     (c) Security

             Certain leasehold lands and certain prepaid lease payments with net carrying amount of RM15,403,943 (2023:
             RM15,514,316) have been charged to licensed banks banking facilities granted to subsidiaries (Note 20).

126
Kawan At  This is Kawan        Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad          Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                   AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

                                                                                      Group  2023
                                                                                               RM
                                                                                  2024
                                                                                    RM

Cost                                                                  10,491,946             10,491,946
At 1 January/31 December

Accumulated depreciation                                              2,789,854              2,644,016
At 1 January                                                             145,839                145,838
Charge for the financial year
At 31 December                                                        2,935,693              2,789,854

Carrying amounts                                                      7,556,253              7,702,092
At 31 December

Represented by:                                                       5,649,436              5,730,845
Leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years       1,906,817               1,971,247
Buildings                                                             7,556,253
                                                                                             7,702,092

Investment properties comprise two (2023: two) commercial properties that are leased to third parties. The leases are
renewable on yearly basis. No contingent is charged.

The fair value of the investment properties are as follows:

                                                                                      Group  2023
                                                                                               RM
                                                                                  2024
                                                                                    RM

At 31 December                                                        24,365,100             24,365,100

The Group estimates the fair value of its investment properties based on the comparison of the Group’s investment properties
with similar properties that were listed for sale within the same locality or other comparable localities.

The disclosure of fair value above was measured at the reporting date using the following method:

Significant unobservable inputs (Level 2)

The valuation of commercial property is based on market comparable approach. The significant unobservable input is yield
adjustment based on directors’ assumptions. The yield adjustments are made for any difference in the nature, location or
condition of the specific property.

                                                                                               127
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

8. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONTINUED)
        Significant unobservable inputs (Level 2) (continued)
        The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:

                                                                                                 Group         2023
                                                                                                                 RM
                                                                                             2024
                                                                                               RM

     Rental income                                                                           (1,563,908)       (1,608,096)
     Direct operating expenses                                                                   129,806           129,806

     Investment properties of the Group amounting to RM7,556,253 (2023: RM7,702,092) has been charged to a licensed bank for
     credit facilities granted to a subsidiary (Note 20).

     The operating lease payments to be received are as follows:

                                                                                                 Group         2023
                                                                                                                 RM
                                                                                             2024
                                                                                               RM

     Less than one year                                                                      1,471,052         1,566,284
     One to two years                                                                        1,142,784         2,709,068
     More than two years                                                                     1,047,552         1,047,552
     Total undiscounted lease payments                                                       3,661,388         5,322,904

9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES                                                                 Company          2023
                                                                                                                 RM
        Unquoted shares - at cost                                                            2024
        Less: Impairment loss                                                                  RM
        At 1 January
        Impairment loss recognised for the financial year                                    37,578,006        37,578,006
        At 31 December
        Capital contribution                                                                                -                -
        Effect of movements in exchange rates                                                  (1,001,571)                   -
                                                                                               (1,001,571)                   -
                                                                                             36,576,435        37,578,006
                                                                                             20,730,322        20,730,322
                                                                                              6,378,640         7,008,924
                                                                                             63,685,397         65,317,252

128
Kawan At   This is Kawan    Our Strategic                  Our Commitment to Good         Financial   Other
A Glance   Food Berhad      Review                         Corporate Governance           Statements  Information

                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

9. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
        Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                             Effective
                            ownership

                              interest

Subsidiaries of the         2024                     2023    Country of
Company                       %                        %   incorporation Principal activities

Kawan Food Manufacturing    100                      100   Malaysia  Manufacturing and sale of frozen food products.

Sdn. Bhd.

KG Pastry Marketing Sdn.    100                      100   Malaysia  Investment property and rental of trucks.
   Bhd.

Kawan Food Confectionery    100                      100   Malaysia  Investment holding.

Sdn. Bhd.

Kawan Food (Hong Kong)      100                      100   Hong Kong Trading and distribution of frozen food products.
   Limited*#

KLBG Sdn. Bhd.              100                      100   Malaysia  Manufacturing and exporting of frozen food
                                                                        products.

Subsidiary of Kawan Food
   (Hong Kong) Limited

Kawan Food (Nantong) Co.,   100                      100   The People’s Manufacturing and trading of frozen food

Ltd.@                                                      Republic of China delicacies.

Subsidiary of Kawan Food
   Confectionery Sdn. Bhd.

Tian Beverages Sdn. Bhd.    100                      -     Malaysia  Engaged in the beverage industry, specialises in
                                                                        manufacturing, trading, distributing, importing
                                                                        and exporting concentrated syrups of various
                                                                        flavors as well as frozen fruit juices.

Subsidiary of KG Pastry
   Marketing Sdn. Bhd.

Reka Innotech Sdn. Bhd.     100                      -     Malaysia  Investment holding and information technology.

(Dormant)

* Audited by other member firms of RSM International.
# The capital contribution to Kawan Food (Hong Kong) Limited are interest free and are determined to form part of the

     Company’s net investment in the subsidiary, hence are deemed as quasi-equity.
@ Not audited by member firms of RSM International.

During the financial year, Tian Beverages Sdn. Bhd. and Reka Innotech Sdn. Bhd. were incorporated on 24 April 2024 and 28
November 2024 respectively and held via its wholly own subsidiaries.

As certain subsidiaries reported continuous operating losses, the Company has determined that there is indicator of
impairment and subsequently assessed the recoverable amount. As a result of this assessment, management has concluded
that the recoverable amount of its investment in KLBG Sdn. Bhd. as of 31 December 2024 is lower than its carrying amount.
Hence, an impairment loss of RM1,001,571 has been recognised for the current financial year.

                                                                                                                                                                  129
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                   ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

10. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE

        In the previous financial year, the Group disposed its entire 32.5% equity interest in Kejap Food Sdn. Bhd., for a total cash
        consideration of RM600,000. As at 31 December 2023, the amount was held by the solicitor as a stakeholder, pursuant to the
        shares sale and purchase agreement. This amount was subsequently received from the solicitor on 16 April 2024.

        The associate was accounted for using the equity method by the Group based on management accounts as at 30 September
        2023.

        The following table summarises the unaudited information of the Group’s material associate:

     Summarised financial information                                                                            Kejap Food
                                                                                                                   Sdn. Bhd.
     As at 30 September                                                                                                   2023
     Non-current assets                                                                                                      RM
     Current assets
     Non-current liabilities                                                                                        1,896,831
     Current liabilities                                                                                           4,379,949
     Net assets                                                                                                     (463,853)

     As at 30 September                                                                                              (852,916)
     Revenue                                                                                                        4,960,011
     Loss and total comprehensive loss for the financial year
                                                                                                                   2,140,560
     Group’s share of results                                                                                     (1,659,578)
     As at 30 September
     Group’s share of loss and total comprehensive other comprehensive loss for the financial year                     (471,711)

11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE                                                                       Group    2023
                                                                                                                   RM
        Unquoted shares - at cost                                                                   2024
        Share of post-acquisition loss                                                                RM

                                                                                                    2,600,000    2,600,000
                                                                                                      (361,326)               -

                                                                                                    2,238,674    2,600,000

130
Kawan At  This is Kawan     Our Strategic                            Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad       Review                                   Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

11. INVESTMENT IN A JOINT VENTURE (CONTINUED)
        Details of the joint venture are as follows:

                                   Effective
                            ownership interest

Joint venture of the Group  2024                               2023    Country of
                              %                                  %   incorporation Principal activities

Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd. *^#  40                                 40    Malaysia  Venture into biocompost business

* On 9 November 2023, the Group has subscribed 2,500,000 redeemable preference shares in Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. for
     a total cash consideration of RM2,500,000. Kawan Biotech Sdn. Bhd. is the subsidiary of Kawan2Nature Sdn. Bhd.

^ On 16 December 2022, the Group has established and registered a joint venture company with Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd.
     On 20 January 2023, the Group had via one of its wholly own subsidiaries, entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with
     Good2Nature Sdn. Bhd., which is the counterparty of the joint venture.

# No summarised financial information has been disclosed as the directors of the Group regarded the financial information
     as immaterial to the Group.

12. OTHER INVESTMENTS                                                                                               Shares
                                                                                                                 quoted in
        Group                                                                                                    Malaysia
        2024
        Current                                                                                                            RM
        Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
        Market value of quoted investments                                                                        8,377,211
        2023                                                                                                      8,377,211
        Current
        Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss                                                    9,240,224
        Market value of quoted investments                                                                       9,240,224

                                                                                                                      131
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

12. OTHER INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)                                                                     Company   2023
                                                                                                                  RM
        Non-current                                                                                  2024
        At cost                                                                                        RM
        Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares (Unquoted shares)
        Dividends recognised in profit or loss                                                 122,000,000      122,000,000
                                                                                                 5,294,800         5,160,600

13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
        Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
        Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                                                Assets       2023                 Liabilities  2023        Net  2023
                                                               RM                                RM               RM
                                            2024                                2024                 2024
                                              RM                                  RM                   RM

     Group                                                -        - (19,867,016)    (17,000,691) (19,867,016)  (17,000,691)
     Property, plant and equipment             4,210,157                                                          3,510,945
     Provisions                                 (361,910)    3,510,945          -              -     4,210,157      948,146
     Others                                  3,848,247
     Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)      (3,848,247)      948,146            -              -     (361,910)  (12,541,600)
     Set off                                                                                                                  -
     Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)                -  4,459,091 (19,867,016)  (17,000,691) (16,018,769)
                                                                                                                (12,541,600)
                                                             (3,994,972) 3,848,247   3,994,972              -

                                                             464,119 (16,018,769)    (13,005,719) (16,018,769)

132
Kawan At  This is Kawan        Our Strategic           Our Commitment to Good               Financial                   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad          Review                  Corporate Governance                 Statements                  Information

                                                                             NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                              AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
        Movement in temporary differences during the financial year:

                                                       Recognised in                                        Recognised in

                                                                      other                                 other

                                       Recognised in comprehensive                      At  Recognised in comprehensive
                                                                             31.12.2023/
                                At     profit or loss                 loss                  profit or loss  income                    At
                         1.1.2023                                                1.1.2024                                   31.12.2024
                                       (Note 27)       (Note 28)                       RM   (Note 27)       (Note 28)
                              RM                                                                                                     RM
                                              RM                      RM                    RM              RM

Group                    (19,952,205)   2,951,564                        -   (17,000,641)   (3,159,803)                 - (20,160,444)
Property, plant and        3,269,766        241,179                      -     3,510,945    (1,722,535)
                          4,443,850                                   (50)       948,096                                -   1,788,410
   equipment                           (3,495,704)                    (50)                    1,405,141
Provisions               (12,238,589)     (302,961)                          (12,541,600)   (3,477,197)                 28  2,353,265
Others

                                                                                                                        28  (16,018,769)

As at 31 December 2024, the Group has the following deferred tax assets which are not recognised in the financial statements
due to uncertainty in the availability of future taxable income:

                                                                                                                Group       2023
                                                                                                                              RM
                                                                                                            2024
                                                                                                              RM

Property, plant and equipment                                                                                    (939)        (2,489)
Unabsorbed capital allowances                                                                                114,880         114,339
Unutilised tax losses                                                                                         311,751        283,612
                                                                                                            425,692         395,462

As at 31 December 2024, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances and unutilised tax losses of approximately RM478,667
(2023: RM476,413) and RM1,298,963 (2023: RM1,181,716) respectively, which are available to set off against future chargeable
income.

The unabsorbed capital allowances are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits.

With effect from year of assessment (“YA”) 2019, the period for unutilised tax losses carried forward is limited to 10 consecutive
YAs. Any balance of unutilised tax losses after the end of the period of 10 consecutive YAs is to be disregarded.

                                                                                                                                     133
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)

                                                                                             Group    2023
                                                                                         2024           RM

                                                                                           RM

     YA2019  Disregarded from YA2029                                                       300,817    300,817
     YA2020  Disregarded from YA2030                                                       532,821    532,821
     YA2021  Disregarded from YA2031                                                       106,248    106,248
     YA2022  Disregarded from YA2032
     YA2023  Disregarded from YA2033                                                         177,611    177,611
     YA2024  Disregarded from YA2034                                                         64,219    64,219
                                                                                            117,247
                                                                                         1,298,963             -
                                                                                                      1,181,716

     Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that the subsidiaries will be
     able to generate sufficient taxable profits to utilise them.

14. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                            Note       Group    2023                      Company     2023
                                                   2024           RM                     2024           RM

                                                     RM                                    RM

     Trade                                  (a)    110,368,688  77,431,605               -                        -
     Trade receivables
     Less: Impairment loss                         (887,327)    (1,122,348)              -                        -
                                                                                                                  -
        - Individual impairment losses             (629,947)    (555,269)                -                        -
        - Collective impairment losses                                                                            -
     Effect of movements in exchange rates         38,470       (46,771)                 -
                                                                                                      5,223,465
     Non-trade                                     108,889,884  75,707,217               -                  2,000
     Amount due from subsidiaries
     Other receivables                      (b)    -                         -           5,295,630    5,225,465
                                                                 2,974,844                   29,902   5,225,465
                                                   1,908,042     2,974,844
                                                                78,682,061               5,325,532
                                                   1,908,042                             5,325,532

                                                   110,797,926

     (a) Trade receivables

     Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 days (2023: 30 to 90 days) terms. They are
     recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial recognition.

     Included in trade receivables of the Group is amount of RM20,022,142 (2023: RM12,400,369) due from companies in which
     certain directors have interests and held directorship.

     (b) Amount due from subsidiaries

     Amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, interest free and receivable on demand.

134
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic               Our Commitment to Good        Financial     Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                      Corporate Governance          Statements    Information

                                                          NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                           AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

15. INVENTORIES                                                                                    Group  2023
                                                                                                            RM
        At cost                                                                                2024
        Raw materials                                                                            RM
        Packing materials
        Finished goods                                                               4,365,987              3,795,723
        Spare parts                                                                 3,552,059                5,126,210
        Goods-in-transit                                                           27,562,507             23,996,626
                                                                                    6,032,605              5,920,669
        Less: Allowance for slow moving inventories                                                            303,881
        At beginning of the financial year                                             489,844             39,143,109
        Allowance during the financial year                                        42,003,002
        Allowance no longer required
        At end of the financial year                                                (2,713,547)              (604,162)
                                                                                   (4,603,496)             (5,073,310)
        Recognised in profit or loss:                                                                      2,963,925
        Inventories recognised as cost of sales                                       2,713,547            (2,713,547)
        Inventories written off                                                    (4,603,496)            36,429,562
                                                                                   37,399,506

                                                                                   191,425,234            177,720,492
                                                                                     3,052,750              2,404,240

16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

                                                              Group          2023               Company   2023
                                                                               RM                           RM
                                                          2024                                 2024
                                                            RM                                   RM

Money market funds with licensed fund                     412,787         452,180       211,107             206,545
   management companies                              15,694,839      40,562,580    2,072,987               1,870,672
   - redeemable at call                               16,107,626                   2,284,094               2,077,217
   - redeemable upon 1 day notice                    55,412,885       41,014,760    7,612,507             10,415,397
                                                                     63,286,933    9,896,601              12,492,614
Cash and bank balances                                 71,520,511    104,301,693

                                                                                                              135
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

17. SHARE CAPITAL

                                                                  Group and Company

                                                    Number of ordinary shares        Amount

                                                    2024          2023               2024              2023
                                                                                       RM                RM

     Issued and fully paid with no par value

     At 1 January                                   362,581,760   362,581,760       184,889,706    184,889,706
     Issued for cash under Employees’ Share Option
                                                       1,454,852                 -    2,641,766                   -
        Scheme                                      364,036,612   362,581,760       187,531,472    184,889,706
     At 31 December

     The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per
     share at meetings of the Company.

     During the financial year, the issued and paid up share capital of the Company was increased from RM184,889,706 to
     RM187,531,472 by way of an issue of 1,454,852 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s Employees’ Share Options Scheme
     at an exercise price of RM1.65 per ordinary share.

     The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of
     the Company.

18. TREASURY SHARES

                                                                                    Group and Company

                                                                                     2024              2023
                                                                                       RM                RM

     At cost                                                                        (24,244,909)     (1,345,429)
     At 1 January                                                                    (14,135,928)  (22,899,480)
     Acquired during the financial year                                             (38,380,837)   (24,244,909)
     At 31 December

     The shares purchased can be retained as treasury shares, distributed as dividend, transferred, resold or subsequently
     cancelled in accordance with Section 127 of the Companies Act 2016.

136
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial     Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements    Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)

        During the financial year, the Company repurchased its shares of 8,188,300 (2023: 12,275,100) ordinary shares with total
        consideration of RM14,135,928 (2023: RM22,899,480) as follows:

Date                                    Number of               Purchase                   Total
                                             shares                   price   consideration
24 January 2024
26 January 2024                              26,500                   1.8312                paid
31 January 2024                               13,300                 1.8200                  (RM)
5 February 2024                               31,500                1.8486
6 February 2024                               20,300                  1.8170             48,527
8 February 2024                              25,500                 1.8456               24,206
2 April 2024                                 90,300                 1.8494                58,231
3 April 2024                                 59,000                 1.8003               36,885
4 April 2024                                103,900                  1.8260              47,063
5 April 2024                                 50,600                 1.8300               167,001
8 April 2024                                  118,100                1.8297              106,218
9 April 2024                                  93,700                 1.8297              189,721
12 April 2024                                191,800                 1.8274              92,598
15 April 2024                               100,000                  1.8298             216,088
16 April 2024                               105,600                  1.8295              171,443
17 April 2024                                 70,900                 1.8288            350,495
19 April 2024                                33,000                  1.8297             182,980
22 April 2024                               130,600                  1.8242              193,195
24 April 2024                               257,400                  1.8220             129,662
10 May 2024                                   26,300                1.8083               60,380
10 May 2024                                   111,300                1.7967             238,241
10 May 2024                                 225,000                  1.7984            468,983
10 May 2024                                 282,700                  1.7958              47,558
7 June 2024                                  96,000                  1.7879             199,973
18 June 2024                                 46,300                  1.7857           404,640
27 June 2024                                 292,100                 1.7809            507,673
11 July 2024                                183,000                  1.7676              171,638
12 July 2024                                 20,000                  1.7700              82,678
15 July 2024                                  21,800                 1.7769             520,201
16 July 2024                               204,000                   1.7686             323,471
25 July 2024                                                         1.7700              35,400
31 July 2024                                    1,000                1.7425              38,736
1 August 2024                                68,800                  1.7329            360,794
2 August 2024                                68,500                  1.7368
5 August 2024                                30,000                  1.7300                 1,770
6 August 2024                                 52,300                 1.6913             119,884
7 August 2024                                 171,100                1.6995              118,704
8 August 2024                                 51,400                 1.6957               52,104
14 August 2024                               36,600                  1.6851              90,479
16 August 2024                                                       1.7200             289,381
19 August 2024                                  7,700                1.7000              87,354
                                              22,200                  1.7100             62,063
                                               4,200
                                                                                          12,975
                                               9,200                                     38,184

                                                                                            7,140
                                                                                          15,732

                                                                                           137
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                 ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Number of      Purchase                   Total
                                        shares          price   consideration
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
                                          8,200        1.7200                 paid
18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)            2,200       1.7300                  (RM)
                                         19,300        1.7000
        Date                              9,500        1.7200               14,104
        20 August 2024                   15,500        1.6993                3,806
        21 August 2024                   18,800        1.7000               32,810
        23 August 2024                  44,600         1.6922              16,340
        26 August 2024                   22,200        1.6881              26,339
        27 August 2024                   31,400        1.6728               31,960
        28 August 2024                   23,200        1.6813              75,472
        29 August 2024                   51,600         1.6791             37,476
        2 September 2024                 20,200        1.6784              52,526
        6 September 2024                20,800         1.6825              39,006
        9 September 2024                42,900         1.6877              86,642
        12 September 2024              140,000        1.6886               33,904
        13 September 2024                 12,100      1.6900               34,996
        17 September 2024                16,000         1.7100             72,402
        18 September 2024                  1,200        1.7100           236,404
        20 September 2024                               1.7100             20,449
        23 September 2024                    500        1.7100             27,360
        25 September 2024                27,000         1.7100               2,052
        27 September 2024                               1.7100
        30 September 2024                  1,900        1.7100                 855
        1 October 2024                     9,700       1.7200               46,170
        3 October 2024                    6,000        1.7200                3,249
        4 October 2024                    5,000        1.6986               16,587
        7 October 2024                    5,200         1.7103              10,260
        9 October 2024                  48,000          1.7021               8,600
        10 October 2024                 54,000          1.7120              8,944
        16 October 2024                 112,900        1.6995               81,533
        22 October 2024                   3,500        1.7000              92,356
        24 October 2024                210,000         1.6970              192,167
        25 October 2024                    2,900       1.6970                5,992
        28 October 2024                 70,400         1.6970            356,895
        29 October 2024                  17,000        1.6970                4,930
        6 November 2024                   6,000        1.6970             119,469
        11 November 2024                34,500         1.6970              28,849
        12 November 2024                  11,800       1.7000               10,182
        21 November 2024                 15,600        1.7000              58,547
        22 November 2024                28,500        1.6984               20,025
        26 November 2024                177,000        1.6933              26,473
        2 December 2024                 812,700        1.6773             48,450
        3 December 2024                  15,000        1.6552            300,900
        4 December 2024               600,000          1.6598          1,380,290
        5 December 2024                365,200                             25,400
        6 December 2024                268,600                         1,006,380
        9 December 2024                                                  604,479
        10 December 2024                                                 445,822

138
Kawan At      This is Kawan           Our Strategic     Our Commitment to Good        Financial      Other
A Glance      Food Berhad             Review            Corporate Governance          Statements     Information

                                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

18. TREASURY SHARES (CONTINUED)

Date                                                                 Number of        Purchase                    Total
                                                                          shares            price    consideration
12 December 2024
17 December 2024                                                         182,000           1.6582                  paid
18 December 2024                                                            8,000         1.6500                    (RM)
19 December 2024                                                                          1.6496
23 December 2024                                                         224,700          1.6500               301,792
24 December 2024                                                        206,400           1.6500                 13,200
30 December 2024                                                                          1.6500              370,665
31 December 2024                                                          25,400           1.6300             340,560
                                                                         229,500           1.6300                41,910
                                                                         236,100                              378,675
                                                                                                              384,843
                                                                           114,100                             185,983
                                                                      8,188,300                            14,135,928

At the reporting date, the number of outstanding shares in issue after setting off the treasury shares against equity was
342,691,112 (2023: 349,424,560).

19. RESERVES

                                                            Group               2023               Company   2023
                                                                                  RM                           RM
                                                        2024                                      2024
                                                          RM                                        RM

Non-distributable:                                       7,672,787     8,147,741                  -                     -
Foreign currency translation reserve                     3,617,870    2,190,502       3,617,870              2,190,502
ESOS share options reserve                              11,290,657   10,338,243       3,617,870              2,190,502

Distributable:                                          229,210,346    222,182,721    46,374,781             29,890,893
Retained earnings                                       240,501,003  232,520,964      49,992,651              32,081,395

Foreign currency translation reserve

The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of the Group entities with functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”).

                                                                                                      Group  2023
                                                                                                               RM
                                                                                                  2024
                                                                                                    RM

At 1 January                                                                          8,147,741              8,248,271
Foreign currency translation during the financial year                                (474,954)              (100,530)
At 31 December                                                                        7,672,787              8,147,741

                                                                                                                  139
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                            ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)

        Share option reserve

        The share option reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the issue of share options. When
        the option is exercised, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to share capital. When the share options
        expire, the amount from the share option reserve is transferred to retained earnings.

        Share-based payments arrangement

        Share option programme (equity settled)

        On 31 May 2018, the shareholders of the Company approved the Employees’ Share Options Scheme. In accordance with this
        programme, holders of vested options are entitled to purchase shares at the market price of the shares at the date of grant.

        The terms and conditions related to the grant of the share option scheme are as follows; all options are to be settled by
        physical delivery of shares:

                                                 Number of Contractual life

     Grant date/employee entitled                options     of options      Exercisable period

     2024                                          945,000   3 years         1 January 2025 to 31 December 2027
     Option granted to eligible employees on       945,000   2 years         1 January 2026 to 31 December 2027
                                                   945,000                   1 January 2027 to 31 December 2027
        19 September 2024                        2,835,000     1 year
     Option granted to eligible employees on
                                                    250,000  0.5 year        28 July 2023 to 25 January 2024
        19 September 2024                         9,320,000
     Option granted to eligible employees on      9,320,000  3 years         1 January 2024 to 31 December 2026
                                                  9,320,000
        19 September 2024                         1,800,000  2 years         1 January 2025 to 31 December 2026
     Total share options                         30,010,000
                                                             1 year          1 January 2026 to 31 December 2026
     2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on                 3 years 18 December 2023 to 31 December 2026

        28 July 2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on

        16 October 2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on

        16 October 2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on

        16 October 2023
     Option granted to eligible employees on

        18 December 2023
     Total share options

     No vesting conditions for options offered.

140
Kawan At  This is Kawan              Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good                  Financial         Other
A Glance  Food Berhad                Review         Corporate Governance                    Statements        Information

                                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

19. RESERVES (CONTINUED)
        Share-based payments arrangement (continued)
        Share option programme (equity settled) (continued)
        The number and weighted average exercise process of shares options are as follows:

                                                                                                    2024               2023
                                                                                            Number of         Number of

                                                                                                options           options

Outstanding at 1 January                                                                    30,010,000                     -
Granted during the financial year                                                            2,835,000        30,010,000
Exercised during the financial year                                                         (1,454,852)
Recycled during the financial year                                                          (4,014,000)                    -
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                  27,376,148                     -
                                                                                                              30,010,000

Exercisable at 31 December                                                                  8,631,148         2,050,000

During the financial year, the share options granted have an exercise price of RM1.65 to RM1.69 (2023: RM1.660 to RM1.6925) and
contractual life of 3 years (2023: 0.5 to 3 years).

The fair value of services received in return for share options granted is based on the fair value of share options granted,
measured using trinomial option pricing model, with the following inputs:

                                                                                                        2024   2023
                                                                                                          RM     RM

Fair value of share options and assumptions                                                 0.1754            0.1911 to 0.1978
Fair value at grant date
                                                                                                    1.681          1.866 to 1.872
Weighted average share price                                                                1.65 to 1.69              1.66 to 1.69
Share price at grant date
Expected volatility (weighted average volatility)                                               16.99%         25.17% to 27.00%
Options life (expected weighted average life)                                                   3 years         0.50 to 3 years
Expected dividends                                                                                                1.92% to 1.94%
Risk-free interest rate (based on Malaysia Government Securities)                                2.49%
                                                                                                3.334%        3.333% to 3.636%
Value of employee services received for issue of share options:

                                                                                            Group and Company

                                                                                                        2024   2023
                                                                                                          RM     RM

Share options granted                                                                       1,427,368         2,190,502
Total expenses recognised as shared-based payments                                          1,427,368         2,190,502

                                                                                                                           141
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

20. LOANS AND BORROWINGS

                                                                    Group   2023
                                                                              RM
                                                                2024
                                                                  RM

     Term loans                                                 2,766,717   3,560,015
     Classified as:

        - current liability

     Present value of term loans                                2,766,717   3,560,015
     Analysed as follows:

        - not later than 1 year

     The Group’s term loans are secured over certain leasehold lands and certain buildings of subsidiaries and subject to interest
     at rates ranging from 1.15% to 1.34% (2023: 1.15% to 1.34%) per annum (Notes 6, 7 and 8).

21. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

                                  Note      Group   2023         Company    2023
                                                      RM                      RM
                                        2024                    2024
                                          RM                      RM

     Trade                        (a)   20,932,194  27,090,602  -                   -
     Trade payables

     Non-trade                          7,044,914   7,618,974       28,972      154,127
     Other payables                                               135,868      103,080
     Accruals                           21,073,434  16,123,848  2,142,783   13,600,710
     Amount due to a subsidiary                                 2,307,623   13,857,917
                                  (b)   -           -           2,307,623   13,857,917

                                        28,118,348  23,742,822

                                        49,050,542  50,833,424

     (a) Trade payables
             (i) Credit terms of trade payables are ranging from 30 to 60 days (2023: 30 to 60 days).
             (ii) Included in trade payables of the Group is an amount of RM420,502 (2023: RM288,788) due to companies in which
                      certain directors have interests.

     (b) Amount due to a subsidiary
             Amount due to a subsidiary is unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

142
Kawan At     This is Kawan  Our Strategic         Our Commitment to Good              Financial         Other
A Glance     Food Berhad    Review                Corporate Governance                Statements        Information

                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

22. REVENUE

                                                        Group             2023                     Company  2023
                                                                            RM                    2024        RM
                                                    2024
                                                      RM                                            RM           -

Revenue from contracts with customers             317,548,594        287,215,315                       -
Others
                                                                  -                -  44,365,099            18,181,788
   - dividends                                    317,548,594        287,215,315      44,365,099            18,181,788

Revenue from contracts with customers in primary  135,986,336        129,706,320      44,365,099            18,181,788
   geographical markets                             75,679,728          56,117,961                   -                 -
                                                   47,034,541                                        -                 -
Malaysia                                          43,058,442         50,947,926                      -                 -
North America                                       14,372,644       34,545,789                      -                 -
Rest of Asia                                          1,416,903                                      -                 -
Europe                                                                 14,059,173
Oceania                                           317,548,594            1,838,146    44,365,099            18,181,788
Africa
                                                                     287,215,315
Timing of recognition
At a point in time                                317,548,594        287,215,315      44,365,099            18,181,788

Nature       Timing of         Significant          Variable element Obligation for
of goods     recognition       payment terms        in consideration returns or refund Warranty

Frozen food  Revenue is        Local sales:         Discounts,            Not applicable          Not applicable
products     recognised        Credit period of     rebates and
             upon transfer     30 to 90 days        incentives
             of significant    from invoice date    are given to
             risk and reward                        customers on
             of ownership of   Export sales:        a case-by case
             the goods to the  Telegraphic          basis.
             customer          transfer at sight
                               and telegraphic
                               transfer 90 days
                               from bill of lading
                               date

                                                                                                                     143
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

23. OTHER INCOME                                                       Group   2023         Company  2023
                                                                                 RM                    RM
        Rental income                                              2024                    2024
        Other income                                                 RM                      RM

                                                                   4,704,956   4,983,610   -                   -
                                                                    1,979,043   1,571,683
                                                                   6,683,999   6,555,293   -         13,495

                                                                                           -         13,495

24. FINANCE INCOME                                                     Group   2023         Company  2023
                                                                                 RM                    RM
        Interest income of financial assets calculated using       2024                    2024
           the effective interest method that are at fair value      RM                      RM
           through profit or loss:
           - money market funds with licensed fund                 1,199,590   1,165,003   98,535    112,935
               management companies

25. FINANCE COSTS                                                      Group   2023         Company  2023
                                                                                 RM                    RM
        Interest expense of financial liabilities that are not at  2024                    2024
           fair value through profit or loss:                        RM                      RM
           - term loans, secured
                                                                    117,318    207,781     -                   -
        Bank charges                                               193,897             -
                                                                    311,215                53,832              -
                                                                               207,781
                                                                                           53,832              -

144
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                                 Our Commitment to Good           Financial      Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                                        Corporate Governance             Statements     Information

                                                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                        AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

26. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON
        Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting):

                                                                           Group               2023                  Company  2023
                                                                                                 RM                             RM
                                                                       2024                                         2024
                                                                         RM                                           RM

Auditor’s remuneration:                                                   288,896            271,537       60,000                56,500
   - audit fees                                                               8,000            8,000         8,000                 8,000
   - non-audit fees                                                                                                 -                    -
                                                                           145,839          145,838                 -                    -
Depreciation of investment properties                                  18,407,353        19,162,255                 -                    -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                       -                    -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets                                       338,638           338,613
                                                                       18,891,830       19,646,706      1,427,368             2,190,502
Employees’ share option scheme expenses                                                                             -                    -
Fair value loss on financial assets                                      1,427,368        2,190,502
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property, plant and                             477,633          558,812                 -                    -
                                                                                                                    -                    -
   equipment                                                              1,912,371        (34,496)                 -                    -
Loss from disposal of an associate                                                   -     544,203       1,001,571                       -
Loss on disposal of investment in quoted shares
Impairment loss on investment in subsidiaries                             385,380                    -
Impairment loss/(Reversal of impairment loss) on                                     -               -

   trade receivables:                                                   396,188          162,239                    -               -
   - collective impairment loss                                                   -      105,354
   - individual impairment loss                                                                                     -               -
   - collective impairment loss                                        (455,313)                  -
   - individual impairment loss                                        (147,989)        (174,798)                   -               -
                                                                        (207,114)
Personnel expenses (including key management                                              92,795                    -               -
   personnel):
   - contributions to state plans                                                                                   -               -
   - wages, salaries and others
                                                                        3,920,875        3,000,658               -                    -
Property, plant and equipment written off                              53,167,675       42,512,899      210,500               54,000
Provision for slow moving inventories
Provision for slow moving inventories no longer                          1,451,034          905,647              -                    -
                                                                        4,603,496         5,073,310              -                    -
   required
Rental expenses (#) in respect of:                                      (2,713,547)     (2,963,925)              -                    -

   - coldroom                                                                     637        35,094              -                    -
   - storage                                                                 48,245          94,645              -                    -
   - hostel                                                               944,540            892,100             -                    -
                                                                           993,422         1,021,839             -                    -
Rental income from:
   - investment properties                                             (1,563,908)       (1,739,044)             -                    -
   - office and factory                                                   (441,972)         (441,613)            -                    -
   - coldroom                                                                                                    -                    -
                                                                       (2,699,076)      (2,802,953)              -                    -
                                                                       (4,704,956)      (4,983,610)

                                                                                                                                    145
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

26. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATON (CONTINUED)
        Profit before taxation is arrived after charging/(crediting): (continued)

                                                            Group                  2023             Company    2023
                                                                                     RM                          RM
                                                        2024                                       2024
                                                          RM                                         RM

     Inventories written off                            3,052,750                  2,404,240                -              -
     (Gain)/Loss on foreign exchange:
                                                        (1,199,356)                 (1,178,362)    728,149     (1,273,656)
        - unrealised                                     3,220,182                  (1,158,397)             -              -
        - realised                                      2,020,826                  (2,336,759)
                                                                                                   728,149     (1,273,656)
     Share of loss of a joint venture                      361,326                              -           -              -
     Share of loss of associate                                      -                   471,711            -              -

     # For short-term leases with lease term of 12 months or less and for leases of low value assets, the Group has availed the
          exemption in MFRS 16 not to recognise the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Instead, payments made for these
          leases are recognised as expense when incurred.

     27. TAXATION                                           Group                  2023             Company    2023
                                                                                     RM                          RM
     Current tax                                        2024                                       2024
     Malaysia                                             RM                                         RM
     - current
     - (over)/under provision in prior financial years  6,874,225                  4,415,410       -                   -
     Overseas                                            (266,902)                           -
     - current                                                                                     11,133              -
     - underprovision in prior financial year
                                                            33,653                       19,174    -                   -
     Deferred tax                                                    -                   6,066
     - original and reversal of temporary differences                              4,440,650       -                   -
     - underprovision in prior financial years          6,640,976
                                                                                                   11,133              -
     Total tax expense
                                                        1,738,915                  (3,495,704)     -                   -
                                                        1,738,282                    3,192,743
                                                        3,477,197                     (302,961)    -                   -
                                                        10,118,173                   4,137,689
                                                                                                   -                   -

                                                                                                   11,133              -

146
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic             Our Commitment to Good        Financial        Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                    Corporate Governance          Statements       Information

                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

27. TAXATION (CONTINUED)

        A reconciliation of income tax expenses applicable to profit before taxation within the applicable statutory income tax rate is
        as follows:

                                                       Group               2023               Company  2023
                                                                             RM                          RM
                                                   2024                                      2024
                                                     RM                                        RM

Profit before taxation                             41,536,172       34,266,322   40,885,395            17,180,532

Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of  9,968,681        8,223,917    9,812,495             4,123,327
   24% (2023: 24%)
                                                     1,527,635       1,322,996      859,084                570,131
Tax effects in respect of:                                  (307)     (297,164)           (307)         (305,677)
                                                                      (382,510)                        (4,387,781)
Non-deductible expenses                               (612,284)                  (10,671,272)
Non-taxable income                                                   (897,462)                                     -
Tax exempt income                                                -  (5,784,149)                -                   -
Recognition of reinvestment allowance incentive    (2,200,395)      (1,084,093)                -                   -
                                                                                               -                   -
   previously not recognised                                     -        6,968                -                   -
Reinvestment allowance incentive                         30,230       (169,623)                -                   -
Double deduction on qualifying expenditure             (66,767)       938,880                  -
Effect of deferred tax assets not recognised        8,646,793                                                      -
Others                                                                  6,066    11,133                            -
                                                     (266,902)      3,192,743          -                           -
(Over)/Under provision:                              1,738,282      4,137,689
- current tax                                        10,118,173                  11,133
- deferred tax

                                                                                                               147
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                           ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

28. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS                                                                    Group     2023
                                                                                                            RM
        Foreign currency translation loss for foreign operations during the financial year  2024
        Less: Tax income/(expense)                                                            RM
        Net of tax
                                                                                            (474,982)     (100,480)
                                                                                                      28         (50)

                                                                                            (474,954)     (100,530)

29. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

        Basic earnings per ordinary share

        The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 was based on the profit attributable to owners
        of the Company of RM31,417,999 (2023: RM30,128,633) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
        347,760,049 (2023: 359,813,534).

        Diluted earnings per ordinary share

        The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 was based on the profit attributable to owners
        of the Company of RM31,417,999 (2023: RM30,128,633) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of
        373,101,211 (2023: 368,315,507) after adjustment for the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares relating to Employees’ Share
        Option Scheme (“ESOS”).

30. DIVIDENDS
        Dividends recognised by the Company:

                                                          Sen                                   Total        Date of
                                                 per share                                  amount        payment

                                                                                                   RM

     2024                                        4.2                                        14,703,023    2 April 2024
     Interim 2024 ordinary - single tier
     Second interim 2024 ordinary - single tier  2.8                                        9,687,351 20 December 2024

                                                                                            24,390,374

     2023                                        3.6                                        13,021,188    31 March 2023
     Interim 2022 ordinary - single tier

        Subsequent to the end of the current financial year, the Board of Directors has approved a final single tier dividend of 2.0
        sen per ordinary share totalling RM6,802,080 was declared on 24 February 2025 and paid on 27 March 2025 in respect of the
        financial year ended 31 December 2024.

        The final dividend will be accounted for in the shareholders’ equity as appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year
        ending 31 December 2025.
.

148
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good                      Financial         Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance                        Statements        Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS

        The Group’s reportable segments are organised in accordance with the Group entities, which are the Group’s strategic
        business units. The strategic business units offer products to different markets and managed separately because they require
        different marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Executive Officer (the chief operating decision
        maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a quarterly basis.

        Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest and depreciation, as included in the internal
        management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Group’s chief operating decision maker.
        Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in
        evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.

        Segment assets

        The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of a segment, as included in the internal
        management reports that are reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer. Segment total assets are used to measure the return
        on assets of each segment.

        Segment liabilities

        Segment liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provide regularly to the Chief
        Executive Officer. Hence no disclosure is made on segment liabilities.

        Segment capital expenditure

        Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and equipment,
        investment properties and intangible assets other than goodwill.

                                                                                    Manufacturing and trading

                                                                                                2024  2023
                                                                                                  RM    RM

Group                                                                               102,482,419       65,151,096
Reporting segment profit
                                                                                    317,548,594        287,215,315
Included in the measure of segment profit are:                                      206,453,294       148,538,360
   - revenue from external customers
   - inter-company revenue                                                          (18,891,830)      (19,646,706)
                                                                                         (311,215)        (207,781)
Not included in the measure of reporting segment profit but provided to                                   1,165,003
   Chief Executive Officer:                                                            1,199,590
   - depreciation (Note 26)                                                          (10,118,173)       (4,137,689)
   - finance costs
   - finance income                                                                 25,659,715        5,824,333
   - income tax expense

Segment assets
Included in the measure of segment assets are:

   - additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred
      tax assets

                                                                                                                   149
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
        Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and other material items:

                                                                                                             Group     2023
                                                                                                                         RM
                                                                                                         2024
                                                                                                           RM

     Profit or loss                                                                            102,482,419               65,151,096
     Total profit or loss for reportable segments                                              (42,942,792)             (12,195,290)
     Elimination of inter-segment profits                                                      (18,891,830)            (19,646,706)
     Depreciation (Note 26)
     Finance income                                                                                1,199,590               1,165,003
     Finance costs                                                                                   (311,215)             (207,781)
     Consolidated profit before tax                                                                                    34,266,322
                                                                                                 41,536,172

                                                   External    Depreciation       Finance                Finance       Segment
                                                   revenue                    RM      costs              income           assets
                                                                                         RM                                     RM
                                                           RM                                                   RM

     2024                          524,001,888                 (18,891,830)       (311,215)              1,199,590     879,344,141
     Total reportable segments
     Elimination of inter-segment  (206,453,294)                              -            -                        -  (421,856,475)
                                     317,548,594               (18,891,830)       (311,215)              1,199,590     457,487,666
        transactions or balances
     Consolidated

     2023                          435,753,675                 (19,646,706)       (207,781)              1,165,003     802,978,599
     Total reportable segments
     Elimination of inter-segment  (148,538,360)                              -             -                      -   (342,221,890)
                                     287,215,315               (19,646,706)       (207,781)              1,165,003     460,756,709
        transactions or balances
     Consolidated

     Geographical segments
     The manufacturing of frozen food products is carried out solely in Malaysia and China.
     In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location of
     customers.
     Geographical information
     The geographical information is shown in Note 22.
     Major customer
     The Group has one (2023: one) major customer contributing approximately 16% (2023: 12%) of the Group’s total revenue.

150
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                      Our Commitment to Good            Financial          Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                             Corporate Governance              Statements         Information

                                                            NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                             AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
        (a) Categories of financial instruments of the Group and of the Company are as follows:

                                                                Group               2023                   Company  2023
                                                                                      RM                              RM
                                                            2024                                          2024
                                                              RM                                            RM

          Assets                                                          -                -     122,000,000     122,000,000
          Financial assets at amortised cost                110,797,926       78,682,061            5,325,532      5,225,465
                                                            55,412,885       63,286,933              7,612,507     10,415,397
             - Other investments                            166,210,811      141,968,994
             - Trade and other receivables                                                       134,938,039     137,640,862
             - Cash and bank balances
                                                                8,377,211      9,240,224                      -               -
          Financial assets at fair value through profit      16,107,626       41,014,760         2,284,094          2,077,217
             or loss                                        24,484,837       50,254,984          2,284,094          2,077,217
             - Other investments
             - Short-term investments                          2,766,717       3,560,015                     -                  -
                                                            49,050,542       50,833,424          2,307,623          13,857,917
          Liabilities                                                        54,393,439          2,307,623          13,857,917
          Financial liabilities at amortised cost             51,817,259

             - Loans and borrowings
             - Trade and other payables

(b) Net (losses)/gains arising from financial instruments

                                                                Group               2023                   Company  2023
                                                                                      RM                              RM
                                                            2024                                          2024
                                                              RM                                            RM

          Net (losses)/ gains on:                           (477,633)        (558,812)                   -                  -

          Financial instruments at fair value through       1,199,590        1,165,003           98,535             112,935
             profit or loss                                   721,957          606,191           98,535             112,935

          Other investments – recognised in profit or loss
          Short-term investments – recognised in profit

             or loss

                                                                                                                              151
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

        The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:

        (a) Credit risk
        (b) Liquidity risk
        (c) Market risk

        (a) Credit risk

                 Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
                 its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its receivables from customers,
                 cash and cash equivalents and other investments.

                 (i) Receivables

                         Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                         Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
                         Normally financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or directors of the Company are obtained, and credit
                         evaluations are performed on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.

                         At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables is credit impaired.

                         The gross carrying amount of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or in full) when there
                         is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not
                         have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amount subject to write
                         off. Nevertheless, trade receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

                         There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.

                         Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                         At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from receivables is represented by
                         the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.

                         Management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are
                         stated at their realisable values. A significant portion of these receivables are regular customers that have been
                         transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the receivables. Any
                         receivables having significant balances past due more than 90 days, which are deemed to have higher credit risk,
                         are monitored individually.

                         When an account is more than 90 days past due, the credit risk is considered to have increased significantly since
                         the initial recognition. The Group and the Company identify as a default account if it is more than 90 days past due
                         and the customer is having significant financial difficulties (analysed by financial measures of reported losses,
                         negative cash flows, and qualitative evaluation of the customer’s characteristics). The Group and the Company
                         classify an impaired receivable when a customer is in default, in liquidation or other financial reorganisation.

                         For each receivable, the lifetime Expected Credit Loss (“ECL”) is recognised using the probability of default
                         technique. The inputs used are: (i) the percent chance of default, and (ii) the expected cash shortfalls. The lifetime
                         ECL is measured at the probability-weighted expected cash shortfalls by reference to the Group’s past experience,
                         current conditions and forecast of future economic benefits.

152
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial       Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements      Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Concentration of credit risk
                         The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period by geographic region was as
                         follows:

                                                                                Group  2023
                                                                                         RM
                                                                            2024
                                                                              RM

          Malaysia                                                 31,198,501          28,010,543
          North America                                          38,406,451            22,316,090
          Europe                                                                       10,364,846
          Rest of Asia                                              18,017,571          11,202,829
          Oceania                                                  15,212,234           3,347,664
          Africa                                                   5,416,436
                                                                                           465,245
                                                                       638,691          75,707,217
                                                                108,889,884

          At the end of the reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for the amount
          due from one customer (2023: one customer) representing 23% (2023: 19%) of total trade receivables of the Group.
          The Group does not anticipate the carrying amount recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly
          different from the value that would eventually be received.

                                                                                             153
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Impairment losses
                         The ageing analysis of trade receivables as at the end of the reporting period was:

                                                                                                              Effect of

                             Gross         Individual    Collective movements in                                                 Net
                          amount        impairment                                                                        amount
                                                         impairment exchange rates
                                 RM                  RM                                                                          RM
                                                         RM                                                   RM

     Group                  77,618,957             -           (569)                                          22,294      77,640,682
     2024                   14,631,501             -         (1,469)                                            4,413     14,634,445
     Not past due           11,968,737             -        (3,592)                                            4,528
     Past due 1-30 days                                                                                                    11,969,673
     Past due 31-90 days     6,149,493  (887,327)        (624,317)
     Past due more than     32,749,731  (887,327)        (629,378)                                              7,235       4,645,084
                          110,368,688   (887,327)        (629,947)                                             16,176       31,249,202
        90 days                                                                                               38,470      108,889,884
     Total past due

     2023                 47,712,344               -      (59,940)                                               (1,813)  47,650,591
     Not past due         13,670,669               -       (123,181)                                             (5,218)   13,542,270
     Past due 1-30 days   13,060,423               -     (241,469)                                             (10,775)     12,808,179
     Past due 31-90 days
     Past due more than    2,988,169    (1,122,348)       (130,679)                                           (28,965)        1,706,177
                           29,719,261   (1,122,348)      (495,329)                                            (44,958)    28,056,626
        90 days           77,431,605    (1,122,348)      (555,269)                                             (46,771)
     Total past due                                                                                                        75,707,217

     For balances which are past due but not impaired, management is monitoring individual balances closely and
     is confident of repayment based on subsequent collections after year end past repayment trends of these
     customers.

154
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic           Our Commitment to Good  Financial      Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                  Corporate Governance    Statements     Information

                                                 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                  AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (i) Receivables (continued)
                         Impairment losses (continued)
                         The allowance account is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the
                         amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable directly.
                         The impairment loss as at end of reporting period was:

                                                                                         Group  2023
                                                                                                  RM
                                                                                     2024
                                                                                       RM

          At 1 January                                                   1,724,388              1,584,822
          Impairment loss recognised:
                                                                                     -            105,354
             - Individual impairment loss                                  396,188                162,239
             - Collective impairment loss
          Impairment loss no longer required:                             (147,989)              (174,798)
             - Individual impairment loss                                 (455,313)                        -
             - Collective impairment loss                                  (38,470)
          Effect of movements in exchange rates                          1,478,804                  46,771
          At 31 December                                                                        1,724,388

          (ii) Cash and cash equivalents

                  The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the end of the reporting period,
                  the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
                  position.

                  These banks and financial institutions have low credit risk. Consequently, the Group and the Company are of the
                  view that the loss allowances are not material and hence, it is not provided for.

                                                                                                     155
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                           ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (a) Credit risk (continued)
                 (iii) Financial guarantees
                         Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                         The Group and the Company provide unsecured financial guarantees to third parties and banks in respect of
                         banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
                         Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
                         The table below summarised the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group and of the Company as at the end
                         of the reporting period:

                                                                                Group  2022
                                                                                         RM
                                                                            2024
                                                                              RM

     Corporate guarantees issued in favour of third parties                 2,036,158  1,884,306

                                                                             Company   2022
                                                                                         RM
                                                                            2024
                                                                              RM

     Corporate guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities granted  2,766,717  3,560,015
        to subsidiaries, representing the outstanding loan amounts of the
        subsidiaries (Note 20)

     (iv) Inter-company advances
             Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
             The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of the
             subsidiaries to repay advances on an individual basis.
             Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
             As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts
             in the statements of financial position.
             Advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.
             Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.

156
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (a) Credit risk (continued)

                 (iv) Inter-company advances (continued)

                         Recognition and measurement of impairment losses

                         Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company assumes that
                         there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates significantly. As the
                         Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the
                         Company considers the advances to be in default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The
                         Company considers a subsidiary’s advances to be credit impaired when:

                         • the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
                         • the subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; or
                         • the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.

                         The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal information
                         available.

                         As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the advance to the subsidiaries are not
                         recoverable.

        (b) Liquidity risk

                 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as and when
                 they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables,
                 corporate guarantees, loans and borrowings.

                 The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by
                 the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.

                                                                                         157
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (b) Liquidity risk (continued)
                 Maturity analysis
                 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end
                 of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:

                                              Carrying         Contractual         Contractual       Less than
                                               amount          interest rate         cash flows           1 year
                                                                                                 RM           RM
                                                       RM                      %

     Group                                       2,766,717     1.15% - 1.34%          2,803,791         2,803,791
     2024                                     49,050,542                        -  49,050,542        49,050,542
     Non-derivative financial liabilities                                          51,854,333        51,854,333
     Loans and borrowings                       51,817,259
     Trade and other payables                                                         2,036,158         2,036,158
                                              -                -
     Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii))
     2023                                       3,560,015      1.15% - 1.34%          3,607,719         3,607,719
     Non-derivative financial liabilities     50,833,424                      -    50,833,424        50,833,424
     Loans and borrowings                     54,393,439
     Trade and other payables                                                 -     54,441,143        54,441,143
                                                            -
     Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii))                                         1,884,306         1,884,306

158
Kawan At  This is Kawan      Our Strategic         Our Commitment to Good            Financial         Other
A Glance  Food Berhad        Review                Corporate Governance              Statements        Information

                                                   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (b) Liquidity risk (continued)
                 Maturity analysis (continued)
                 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end
                 of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments: (continued)

                                                   Carrying       Contractual        Contractual       Less than
                                                    amount        interest rate        cash flows           1 year
                                                                                                   RM           RM
                                                            RM                    %

          Company                                  2,307,623               -         2,307,623         2,307,623
          2024
          Non-derivative financial liabilities
          Trade and other payables

          Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii))              -           -         2,766,717         2,766,717
                                                   13,857,917
          2023                                                             -         13,857,917        13,857,917
          Non-derivative financial liabilities
          Trade and other payables

          Financial guarantees* (Note 33(a)(iii))  -                       -         3,560,015         3,560,015

          * As at end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment. Hence,
                the financial guarantees have not been recognised. The disclosure represents the maximum amount that is
                required to be settled in the event of the triggering event.

(c) Market risk

          Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other prices will
          affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.

          (i) Currency risk

          The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and cash and cash
          equivalents that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
          The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Australia Dollar (“AUD”), Euro (“EURO”), British Pound Sterling
          (“GBP”), Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”), Renminbi (“RMB”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) and United States Dollar (“USD”).

          Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

          The Group and the Company manage its foreign currency exposure by matching as far as possible receipts
          and payments in each individual currency. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk is
          monitored on an ongoing basis. The Group and the Company enter into forward exchange contracts in the normal
          course of business, where appropriate, to manage its exposure against foreign currency fluctuations on sales and
          purchase transactions denominated in foreign currencies.

                                                                                                                    159
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                        ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (c) Market risk (continued)
                 (i) Currency risk (continued)
                         Exposure to foreign currency risk
                         The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional
                         currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:

                      AUD          EURO     GBP    HKD         RMB       SGD  USD
                       RM             RM     RM     RM          RM        RM   RM

     2024             -            -        -      -           731 1,213,887 3,283,769
     Group
     Trade and other  -            21,120   -      370,201 830,360 1,720,173 7,275,818

        receivables   - (141,780)           -      -           (47,967)  (6,623) (1,029,172)
     Cash and cash    - (120,660)
                                            -      370,201     783,124 2,927,437 9,530,415
        equivalents
     Trade and other  -            -        -      -           (58,102) 1,413,845 2,003,818

        payables      -            22,842   -      363,415     796,516 402,939 15,971,676

     2023             (6,123)      (1,519)  (263)           -  - (1,605,575) (24,504,957)
     Trade and other  (6,123)      21,323   (263)  363,415
                                                               738,414   211,209 (6,529,463)
        receivables
     Cash and cash    -            -        -      -           -         - 1,423,022

        equivalents   -            -        -      -           -         - 1,459,306
     Trade and other

        payables

     Company
     2024
     Cash and cash

        equivalents

     2023
     Cash and cash

        equivalents

160
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good        Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance          Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (c) Market risk (continued)

                 (i) Currency risk (continued)

                         Currency risk sensitivity analysis

                         A 10% (2023: 10%) strengthening of the following currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) at the end of the
                         reporting period would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This
                         analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant.

                                            Group               2023               Company        2023
                                        Profit or loss            RM              Profit or loss    RM
                                        2024                                      2024

                                          RM                                        RM

          AUD                                       -         (465)            -                          -
          EURO                              (9,170)           1,621            -                          -
          GBP                                                   (20)           -                          -
          HKD                                       -      27,620              -                          -
          RMB                               28,135          56,119             -                          -
          SGD                               59,517          16,052             -                          -
          USD                            222,485        (496,239)     108,150                     110,907
                                          724,312        (395,312)    108,150                     110,907
                                        1,025,279

                  A 10% (2023: 10%) weakening of the above currencies against the Ringgit Malaysia at the end of the reporting
                  period would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the
                  basis that all other variables remained constant.

          (ii) Interest rate risk

                  The Group’s fixed rate deposits and borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in
                  interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of changes in cash flows due to changes
                  in interest rates. Short-term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.

                  Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                  The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk mainly arises from its short-term funds, fixed deposits
                  and borrowings and is managed through effective negotiation with financial institutions for best available rates.

                                                                                                  161
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                               ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (c) Market risk (continued)
                 (ii) Interest rate risk (continued)
                         Exposure to interest rate risk
                         The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
                         carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:

                                       Group       2023          Company        2023
                                                     RM                           RM
                                   2024                         2024
                                     RM                           RM

     Floating rate instruments     16,107,626      41,014,760   2,284,094       2,077,217
     Financial assets              (2,766,717)     (3,560,015)               -            -
     Financial liabilities

     Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
     Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
     The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
     Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
     Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments

                                   Group                        Company

                                   Profit or loss               Profit or loss

                                      100 bp           100 bp      100 bp           100 bp
                                   increase        decrease     increase        decrease

                                           RM               RM          RM               RM

     2024                          122,418         (121,418)    17,359          (17,359)
     Financial assets              (21,027)          21,027            -                -
     Financial liabilities
                                     311,712       (311,712)    15,787          (15,787)
     2023                          (27,056)        27,056              -                -
     Financial assets
     Financial liabilities

162
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (c) Market risk (continued)

                 (ii) Interest rate risk (continued)

                         Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments (continued)

                         A change of 100 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
                         (decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown above. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in
                         particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.

                 (iii) Price risk

                         Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of the financial statements will fluctuate because of
                         changes in market prices (other than currency or interest rate).

                         The Group and the Company are exposed to equity securities price risk arising from the investments held by the
                         Group and the Company which are classified on the statements of financial position as fair value through profit or
                         loss. These securities are listed in Malaysia. The Group and the Company are not exposed to commodity price risk.
                         To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity, the Group and the Company diversify their portfolio.

                         A 5% (2023: 5%) decrease in share price at the end of the reporting period would have decreased profit by RM418,861
                         (2023: RM462,011) for quoted investments classified as fair value through profit or loss. A 5% (2023: 5%) increased
                         in share price would have had equal but opposite effect on equity and profit respectively.

        (d) Fair value of financial instruments

                 (i) Fair value of financial instruments by classes that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amount are
                         a reasonable approximation of fair value

                         The Group’s financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade
                         and other payables, and loans and borrowings.

                         The carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities are reasonable approximation of fair values, because
                         these are short-term in nature or that they are floating rate instruments that are repriced to market interest rates
                         on or near to the end of the reporting period.

                                                                                         163
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                          ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
        (d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
                 (ii) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value

                                                                               Level 1     Level 2  Level 3
                                                                                   RM           RM       RM

     Group                                                                     8,377,211   -                   -
     2024
     Financial assets                                                          16,107,626  -                   -
     Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia
     Short-term investments

     2023                                                                      9,240,224   -                   -
     Financial assets
     Investment in shares quoted in Malaysia                                   41,014,760  -                   -
     Short-term investments

     Company                                                                   2,284,094   -                   -
     2024
     Financial asset
     Short-term investments

     2023                                                                      2,077,217   -                   -
     Financial asset
     Short-term investments

     The fair values of these financial assets that are quoted in an active market are determined by reference to the
     quoted closing bid price at the end of the reporting period.

164
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)

        (d) Fair value of financial instruments (continued)

                 (iii) Policy of transfer between levels

                         The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in
                         circumstances that caused the transfer.

                         Level 1 fair value

                         Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets or
                         liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.

                         Level 2 fair value

                         Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for
                         the financial assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly.

                         Non-derivative financial liabilities

                         Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal
                         and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of the reporting period. In respect
                         of the liability component of convertible notes, the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar
                         liabilities that do not have a conversion option. For other borrowings, the market rate of interest is determined by
                         reference to similar borrowing arrangements.

                         Transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values

                         There has been no transfer between Level 1 and 2 fair values during the financial year (2023: no transfer in either
                         direction).

                         Level 3 fair value

                         Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the financial assets and liabilities.

                         The following shows the valuation techniques used in the determination of fair values within Level 3, as well as the
                         key unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.

                         Valuation processes applied by the Group and the Company for Level 3 fair value

                         The Group and the Company use discounted cash flows in respect of the measurement of fair values of financial
                         instruments. The management has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements,
                         including Level 3 fair values.

                                                                                         165
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

34. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

        The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a capital base adequate to safeguard the Group’s ability to
        continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development
        of the business. The directors monitor and are determined to maintain an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
        regulatory requirements.

        The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by
        equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other
        payables, less cash and cash equivalents.

        The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

                                                                                                       Group  2023
                                                                                                                RM
                                                                                                   2024
                                                                                                     RM

     Loans and borrowings                                                                         2,766,717       3,560,015
     Trade and other payables                                                                  49,050,542      50,833,424
                                                                                                               54,393,439
     Less: Cash and cash equivalents                                                             51,817,259   (104,301,693)
     Net debt                                                                                   (71,520,511)  (49,908,254)
                                                                                               (19,703,252)

     Equity attributable to owners of the Company (excluding treasury shares)                  428,032,475    417,410,670

     Debt-to-equity ratio                                                                          -                   -

     There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

     Under the requirement of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note No. 17/2005, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated
     shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than 25% of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding treasury shares) and such
     shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The Company has complied with this requirement.

     The Group and the Company are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement.

166
Kawan At  This is Kawan                    Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good         Financial      Other
A Glance  Food Berhad                      Review         Corporate Governance           Statements     Information

                                                          NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                           AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

35. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS                                                                                  Group  2023
                                                                                                                  RM
        Capital expenditure commitments                                                              2024
        Property, plant and equipment                                                                  RM
        Authorised but not contracted for
        Contracted but not provided for:                                                             -          16,507,000
                                                                                         3,138,324                3,157,515
           Within one year

36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION

        The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the directors of the Group and of the Company during
        the financial year are as follows:

                                           Note               Group               2023                Company   2023
                                                                                    RM                            RM
                                                          2024                                       2024
                                                            RM                                         RM

Executive directors                                       293,750     340,000            293,750                340,000
Fees                                                                 3,519,680                     -                      -
Salaries and bonuses                                      3,297,256                                -                      -
Defined contribution benefits                                          425,732                                            -
Benefits-in-kind                                          398,254       68,599              4,000
Meeting allowances                                                       81,000           43,000                  81,000
                                                          314,273    4,435,011           340,750                421,000
Non-executive directors
Fees                                       (a)            43,000
Salaries and bonuses
Defined contribution benefits                             4,346,533
Benefits-in-kind
Meeting allowances                                        536,623    415,000             536,623                415,000
                                                                                                                          -
                                                          499,554                 -                  -                    -

                                                          58,347                  -                  -              7,918
                                                                                                                157,500
                                                          24,642                  7,918  23,950                 580,418
                                                                                                                1,001,418
                                           (a)            167,500    157,500             167,500

                                                          1,286,666  580,418             728,073

                                                          5,633,199  5,015,429           1,068,823

                                                                                                                     167
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

36. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONTINUED)
        The number of directors of the Company whose income falls within the following bands are:

                                   Executive directors                                             Non-executive directors

                                   2024                 2023                                       2024  2023
                                     RM                   RM                                         RM    RM

     RM150,000 and below           -                    -                                          3                        2
     RM150,001 to RM200,000
     RM200,001 to RM500,000        -                    -                                          4                        2
     RM500,001 to RM1,000,000
     RM1,000,001 and above         -                    -                                          1                        -
     Total
                                   2                    2                                          -                        -

                                   2                    2                                          -                        -

                                   4                    4                                          8                        4

     (a) Meeting allowances vary from one director to another, depending on the number of committees they sit on and the
             number of meetings attended during the financial year.

37. RELATED PARTIES

        Identity of related parties

        A related party is defined as follows:

        (a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group and the Company if that person:

                 (i) has control or joint control over the Company;
                 (ii) has significant influence over the Company; or
                 (iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the Company or of a parent of the Company.

        (b) An entity is related to the Group and the Company if any of the following conditions applies:

                 (i) the entity and the Company are members of the same group (which means that each parent, subsidiary and
                         fellow subsidiary is related to the others).

                 (ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture of a member of a
                         group of which the other entity is a member).

                 (iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
                 (iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third party and the other entity is an associate of the third party.
                 (v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the Company or entity related

                         to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the Company.
                 (vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a).
                 (vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management

                         personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the Company).
                 (viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services to the

                         Company or to the parent of the Company.

                 The Group has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entity, companies which certain directors
                 have interest and key management personnel.

168
Kawan At  This is Kawan          Our Strategic      Our Commitment to Good          Financial      Other
A Glance  Food Berhad            Review             Corporate Governance            Statements     Information

                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

37. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)

        Significant related party transactions

        Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under normal trade terms. The significant
        related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the transactions below
        are shown in Notes 14 and 21.

                                                        Group               2023                 Company  2023
                                                    2024                      RM                2024        RM

                                                      RM                         -                RM
                                                                                 -
Subsidiaries                                             -                          39,070,299            13,021,188
Dividends income from investment in subsidiaries         -                           5,294,800            5,160,600
Dividends income from other investments
                                                    46,939,761   36,468,246                     -               -
Other related party transactions
Companies in which directors of the Company have    2,219,253    1,863,551                      -               -
                                                    1,629,716    1,757,713
   interest:                                                      441,972                       -               -
Sales of goods                                        441,973
                                                       75,236      65,789                       -               -
Companies in which persons related to directors of
   the Company have interest:                                                                   -               -

Sales of goods
Purchase of goods
Rental of office
Provision of transportation service

                                                        Group               2023                 Company  2023
                                                    2024                      RM                2024        RM

                                                      RM                                          RM

Key management personnel                               293,750    340,000           293,750               340,000
Executive directors:                                3,297,256    3,519,680                    -                     -
                                                                                              -                     -
   - fees                                             398,254      425,732                                          -
   - remuneration                                       314,273     68,599             4,000
   - defined contribution plans                         43,000       81,000          43,000                 81,000
   - benefits-in-kind                               4,346,533    4,435,011          340,750               421,000
   - meeting allowances

Other key management personnel:                     3,788,582    2,995,495                    -                    -
   - short-term employee benefits                      204,970      202,015                   -                    -
   - defined contribution plans                                                               -                    -
                                                    3,993,552      3,197,510
Total compensation paid to key management                                           340,750               421,000
   personnel                                        8,340,085     7,632,521

Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.

                                                                                                                169
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

38. OTHER INFORMATION

        (a) The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on the Main
                 Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

        (b) The registered office of the Company is located at:

                 12th Floor, Menara Symphony
                 No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
                 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
                 Selangor

        (c) The principal place of business of the Company is located at:

                 Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19
                 Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah
                 Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C
                 42920 Pulau Indah
                 Selangor Darul Ehsan

        (d) The financial statements are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia, which is also the Group’s and the Company’s functional
                 currency.

39. APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 14 April 2025.

170
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic                Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review                       Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS

Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

We, the undersigned, being two of the directors of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do
hereby state that, in the opinion of the directors, the accompanying financial statements are drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31
December 2024 and of their financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
ended on that date.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors:

GAN THIAM CHAI		 GAN KA BIEN
Director		Director
Selangor
14 April 2025

STATUTORY DECLARATION

Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

I, LEE FUI MENG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD (Registration
No. 200401001942 (640445-V)) do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements are to the
best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and
by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

LEE FUI MENG
(MIA no. 31056)
Subscribed and solemnly declared
by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur
in the Federal Territory on 14 April 2025
Before me

                                                                                                                                                                          171
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Kawan Food Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 99 to 170.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the
Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of
our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

172
Kawan At  This is Kawan        Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad          Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                   INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                                 To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Key Audit Matters (Continued)

Key audit matter                                                   How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Significant estimates in revenue recognition arising from rebates  The details of our work performed are as follows:
and promotions given to customers
                                                                   • We have assessed and evaluated the
Refer to Note 22 - Revenue                                            appropriateness of the design and implementation
                                                                      of the controls in rebates and promotions given to
The Group’s revenue is recognised net of rebates and promotions.      customers cycle;
Rebates and discounts recognised are based on the expected
entitlement earned up to reporting date under each customer        • We have assessed and evaluated the operating
trading agreement and promotions run.                                 effectiveness on the relevant controls identified
                                                                      within the rebates and promotions given to
The Group has two categories of rebates and promotions where          customers cycle;
estimates are used:
- Conditional rebates                                              • We have reviewed the rebates and promotions
- Promotions                                                          arrangements entered into with customers, on a
                                                                      sampling basis, to obtain an understanding of the
Conditional rebates and promotions are triggered when certain         specific terms and conditions;
conditions are met. The amount committed based on conditions
achieved, multiplied by rates contracted with each customer in     • We have tested that the rebates and promotions
their trading agreements.                                             committed were appropriately accrued for in the
                                                                      current year by checking to the credit notes issued
During the financial year, the Group incurred conditional rebates     to customers subsequent to reporting date; and
and promotions totalling RM24.2 million. A total of approximately
RM8.1 million of these rebates and discounts were included in      • We have performed re-computation of rebates
accruals as at 31 December 2024.                                      and promotions, on a sampling basis, based on the
                                                                      entitlement criteria.
We focused on this area because of the high volume of
transactions incurred during the financial year and estimation
involved in determining the appropriate amount of accruals as at
financial year end and especially in relation to those promotions
and campaigns that were still ongoing at the financial year end
and those in which the actual data with regards the conditions
to be met have not been confirmed.

We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of the Company to be
communicated in our auditors report.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

                                                                                               173
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                    ANNUAL REPORT 2024

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that
give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
    due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
    and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
    higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
    override of internal control.

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
    the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s
    internal control.

• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
    disclosures made by the directors.

• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
    obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or
    the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
    attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such
    disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of
    our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
    concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
    the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions
    and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities
    or business units within the Group as a basis for forming an opinion on the Group financial statements. We are responsible for
    the direction, supervision and review of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
    for our audit opinion.

174
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                           INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                         To the Members of Kawan Food Berhad

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.

RSM Malaysia PLT		                         Har Hou Wei
202306000002 (LLP0030276-LCA) & AF 0768		  03665/05/2026 J
Chartered Accountants		                    Chartered Accountant

Kuala Lumpur

14 April 2025

                                                                                         175
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2024

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                         Approx.               Approx. Land Issuance        Net Book
                                                                                                                                Value
Location/                                  Description/ Tenure of        age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate                RM
Title details                              Existing use Lease
                                                                         building Acquisition  Area           of Fitness
* Held under H.S. (D)
    No. 135852, PT129351,                  Factory cum   Leasehold       6 years   12 October   63,079.9 sq.  18 May 2018 93,946,209
    Mukim dan Daerah Klang,                office        interest for                   2011      metres/
    Negeri Selangor,                                     a term of
    with address at Lot 96,                              99 years                              49,404.82 sq.
    Section 4, Phase 2C,                                 expiring on 24                            metres
    Selangor Halal-Hub, Pulau Indah,                     February 2097
    Selangor Darul Ehsan
                                           Factory cum   Leasehold       44 year   28 May      7,337.24 sq.   23 May 2007   4,301,945
* Held under H.S. (D)                      office        interest for               2004         metres/
    No. 98527, Bandar Shah Alam,                         a term of 99
    Daerah Petaling, Negeri Selangor,                    years expiring                        6,417.91 sq.
    with address at Lot 20,                              on 6 August                              metres
    Jalan Pengapit 15/19,                                2074
    40200 Shah Alam,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                   Factory cum   Leasehold       34 years  28 June      4,484 sq.     24 September  1,462,162
                                           office        interest for                1999        metres/            1990
* Held under H.S. (D) 98490,                             a term of 99                          3,149.43 sq.
    P.T. No. 617, Seksyen 16,                            years expiring                          metres
    Bandar Shah Alam,                                    on 20 July
    Negeri Selangor,                                     2094
    with address at Lot 4,
    Jalan Lada Hitam 16/12A,               Factory cum   Leasehold       34 years  25 May       21,796 sq.    7 May 1990 6,094,090
    40000 Shah Alam,                       office        interest for               2005         metres/
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                                 a term of 99                          3,584.91 sq.
                                                         years expiring                           metres
* Held under H.S. (D) 98500                              on 20 July
    for P.T. No. 714, Seksyen 16,                        2094
    Bandar Shah Alam,
    Negeri Selangor,                       Shop          Freehold        24 years  16 May      67.85 sq.      27 March      36,935
    with address at Lot 2A,                apartment                                2003        metres           2003
    Persiaran Kemajuan,                    occupied as
    Seksyen 16, 40000 Shah Alam,           staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Parcel No. 2F-41C
    with address at 41C-2F,
    Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Parcel No. 2B-41D with                   Shop          Freehold        24 years  29 July     67.85 sq.      27 March      34,363
    address at 41D-2B,                     apartment                                2003        metres           2003
    Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,                 occupied as
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,            staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56067 PT
59174 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

176
Kawan At     This is Kawan                  Our Strategic            Our Commitment to Good    Financial   Other
A Glance     Food Berhad                    Review                   Corporate Governance      Statements  Information

                                                                                                     LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                     Approx.                   Approx. Land Issuance   Net Book
                                                                                                                           Value
Location/                                   Description/ Tenure of   age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate               RM
Title details                               Existing use Lease
                                                                     building Acquisition      Area        of Fitness
* Parcel No. 2F-31C with address
    at 31C-2F, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,       Shop           Freehold  24 years  16 May          67.85 sq.   27 March    36,935
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,             apartment                           2003            metres        2003
    Selangor Darul Ehsan                    occupied as
                                            staff hostel

    Held under Master Title H.S. (D)        Shop           Freehold  24 years  29 July         67.85 sq.   27 March    34,363
    56062 PT 59169 in the Mukim of Klang,   apartment                           2003            metres        2003
    District of Klang,                      occupied as
    State of Selangor Darul Ehsan           staff hostel

* Parcel No. 2B-21D with address
    at 21D-2B, Jalan Datuk Dagang 31,
    Taman Sentosa, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Master Title H.S. (D) 56057 PT
59164 in the Mukim of Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No.                 Shop           Freehold  23 years 21 February      69.52 sq.   26 October  32,595
    B3/3F with address at 57-3A,            apartment                                    2001   metres         2004
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     occupied as
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      staff hostel
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. B4/3F           Shop           Freehold  23 years 21 February      69.52 sq.   26 October  32,595
    with address at 55-3A,                  apartment                                    2001   metres         2004
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     occupied as
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      staff hostel
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67207 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65652 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D4/3F           Shop           Freehold  23 years 21 February      69.52 sq.   26 October  32,595
                                                                                         2001   metres         2004
with address at 57-3A,                      apartment

Jalan Bendahara 13,                         occupied as

Taman Sri Sentosa,                          staff hostel

Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang, Selangor

Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the
Mukim Klang, District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

                                                                                                                        177
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2024

LIST OF PROPERTIES

                                                                        Approx.                   Approx. Land Issuance      Net Book
                                                                                                                                 Value
Location/                                   Description/ Tenure of      age of Date of Area/Built-up of Certificate                  RM
Title details                               Existing use Lease
                                                                        building Acquisition      Area           of Fitness     32,595
* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D3/3F
    with address at 55-3A,                  Shop          Freehold      23 years 21 February      69.52 sq.      26 October
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     apartment                                       2001   metres            2004
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      occupied as
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,        staff hostel
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strara Title H.S. (D) 67207
Lot No. P.T. No. 65652 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor Darul Ehsan

* Shop Apartment Parcel No. D2/3F           Shop          Freehold      23 years 21 February 69.52 sq.           26 October  32,595
    with address at 57-3A,                  apartment                                                                2004
    Jalan Bendahara 13,                     occupied as                           2001            metres
    Taman Sri Sentosa,                      staff hostel
    Jaya Business Park, 41200 Klang,
    Selangor Darul Ehsan

Held under Strata Title H.S. (D) 67208 Lot
No. P.T. No. 65663 in the Mukim Klang,
District of Klang,
State of Selangor darul Ehsan

** Industrial Land at 13,                   Factory cum Leasehold       14 years  26              40,773.90 sq.  N/A         18,132,691

Kexing Road North,                          office        interest for            December metres/

Nantong Economic & Technology                             a term of               2006            16,000 sq.

Development Area (“NETDA”), China                         50 years                                metres

                                                          expiring on

Held under Lot No. 03-10-(001)-338,                       25 December

Land Registry No. 35.45-92.10                             2056

* Held under Kawan Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
** Held under Kawan Food (Nantong) Co., Ltd.

178
Kawan At              This is Kawan       Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good          Financial                      Other
A Glance              Food Berhad         Review         Corporate Governance            Statements                     Information

ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

as per record of depositors as at 28 March 2025

Issued Share Capital   : 364,036,612 Ordinary Shares (including 24,015,000 Treasury Shares)
Class of Shares		      : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights		        : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS                                     No. of          % of            No. of                     % of
                                                                                               Shares                   Shares
Size of Shareholdings                                    Shareholders Shareholders
                                                                                                  6,375                     0.00
Less than 100                                                      406        9.39            707,562                        0.21
100 - 1,000                                                      1,470      33.98           7,370,168                        2.17
1,001 - 10,000                                                   1,744       40.31         17,587,138                        5.17
10,001 - 100,000                                                             13.20       104,058,167                      30.60
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares                            571                  210,292,202                       61.85
5% and above of issued shares                                       132       3.05       340,021,612                     100.00
Total                                                                         0.07
                                                                       3   100.00
                                                                 4,326

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
as per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 28 March 2025

                                                                  Direct                             Indirect

                                                           No. of                        No. of
                                                         Shares
Name of Substantial Shareholders                                                 %(1)    Shares                                      %(1)

1. Gan Thiam Chai                                            1,021,000           0.30    126,257,402(2)                 37.13
2. Kwan Sok Kay                                                         -             -  126,257,402(2)                 37.13
3. Gan Thiam Hock                                                                                                       0.89
4. GFG (L) Foundation                                     22,462,133              6.61     3,028,666(3)
5. Narvee F’dation                                       126,257,402             37.13                                       -
                                                                                 18.23                               -       -
                                                          62,001,200
                                                                                                                     -

(1)  Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).

(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) by virtue of his/her substantial shareholdings in GFG

     (L) Foundation.

(3) Deemed interested in the shares by virtue of Section 59 of the Act, held through his children, namely Gan Meng Hoi, Gan Meng Yeow,

     Gan Meng Hoo and Gan Kha Yee who holds 462,000, 344,000, 344,300 and 344,000 ordinary shares respectively and his spouse, Lam

     Saw Kuan who holds 1,534,366 ordinary shares representing a total of 0.89% in the shareholdings of the Company.

                                                                                                                                     179
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                       ANNUAL REPORT 2024

ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

as per Record of Depositors as at 28 March 2025

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
as per Register of Directors’ shareholdings as at 28 March 2025

                                                                          Direct        Indirect

                                                                   No. of               No. of
                                                                 Shares
Name of Directors                                                                 %(1)  Shares                         %(1)
                                                                                                                        -
1. Lim Hun Soon @ David Lim                      10,137,028                       2.98  -                               -
2. Gan Ka Bien                                                                                                          -
3. Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud                   242,440                          0.07  -                               -
4. Eugene Hon Kah Weng                                                                                                  -
5. Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz                                 -                -     -                               -
6. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor                                                                                               -
7. Gan Ka Ooi                                                    -                -     -                               -
8. Gan Meng Hoi                                                                                                         -
9. Gan Ka Hui                                                    -                -     -                               -
10. Neel Naresh Nagrecha
                                                                 -                -     -                              %(1)
                                                                                                                    37.13
                                                                 -                -     -                           18.23
                                                                                                                    6.48
                                                 462,000                          0.14  -
                                                                                                                      1.91
                                                                 -                -     -                            1.89
                                                                                                                      1.72
                                                                 -                -     -                            1.43
                                                                                                                     1.42
(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).  0.98
                                                                                                                    0.98
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                                        No. of               0.87
as at 28 March 2025                                                                           Shares                 0.78

No. Name of Shareholders                                                                126,257,402
                                                                                         62,001,200
1. GFG (L) FOUNDATION
2. CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                                    22,033,600
                                                                                          6,500,000
        EXEMPT AN FOR STANDARD CHARTERED BANK SINGAPORE BRANCH (SG PVB CL AC)
3. GAN THIAM HOCK                                                                          6,434,100
4. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
                                                                                           5,834,100
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM                           4,865,900
5. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
                                                                                           4,810,000
        PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND
6. KONG POH YIN                                                                           3,330,000
7. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
                                                                                           3,317,028
        PUBLIC SMALLCAP FUND                                                              2,970,466
8. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
                                                                                          2,639,900
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHUNG-CHEN (CCTS)
9. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD

        EXEMPT AN FOR UOB KAY HIAN PTE LTD (A/C CLIENTS)
10. LIM HUN SOON @ DAVID LIM
11. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD

        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN, TSAI-TIEN (CCTS)
12. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
180 PUBLIC ISLAMIC OPPORTUNITIES FUND
Kawan At  This is Kawan   Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good    Financial                                        Other
A Glance  Food Berhad     Review         Corporate Governance      Statements                                       Information

                                                                         ANALYSIS ON SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                                   as per Record of Depositors as at 28 March 2025

No. Name of Shareholders                                             No. of                                             %(1)
                                                                   Shares                                             0.77
                                                                                                                      0.77
13. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD                                        2,618,000                                       0.70
        PUBLIC STRATEGIC SMALLCAP FUND                                2,616,000                                      0.64
                                                                      2,370,500                                      0.64
14. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.                                                         0.59
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOONG KAH YIN                    2,191,182                                     0.57
                                                                      2,168,382                                      0.43
15. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                               2,000,000                                       0.43
        EXEMPT AN FOR UBS AG SINGAPORE (FOREIGN)                      1,930,000                                       0.42
                                                                       1,472,333                                      0.42
16. HLIB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                                     1,464,366                                      0.40
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR WU, CHIA-LUNG (CCTS)            1,418,500                                     0.38
                                                                       1,418,500                                     0.35
17. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD                       1,369,800                                      0.34
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR SHAH KAMAL KANT ZAVERCHAND      1,293,100                                     0.30
                                                                      1,200,000                                      0.30
18. KONG POH YIN                                                       1,149,300                                      0.29
                                                                       1,021,000                                    82.56
19. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD                                         1,019,600
        PUBLIC SELECT TREASURES EQUITY FUND                           1,000,000
                                                                   280,714,259
20. AMANAHRAYA TRUSTEES BERHAD
        PUBLIC ISLAMIC GROWTH BALANCED FUND

21. LAM SAW KUAN

22. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD

23. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD (ISLAMIC)

24. AMANAH RAYA BERHAD
        KUMPULAN WANG BERSAMA

25. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        MAYBANK TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR DANA MAKMUR PHEIM (211901)

26. KOON POH TAT

27. GAN THIAM CHUAN

28. HLIB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        HONG LEONG BANK BHD FOR GAN THIAM CHAI

29. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KOON POH TAT (8062495)

30. HLB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
        PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEW KUAN FAH

        Total

(1) Based on the total number of issued shares of 340,021,612 Kawan Shares (excluding 24,015,000 Treasury Shares).

                                                                                                                                 181
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

Notice is hereby given that the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting ("21st AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad ("Kawan" or "the
Company") will be held at Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa
2C, 42920 Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Monday, 23 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m. for the following purposes:

AGENDA

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS                                                                                  Please Refer To
                                                                                                 Explanatory Note 1
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
        2024 together with the Reports of the Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.

2. To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of        Ordinary Resolution 1
        up to RM1,625,000 for the period from 24 June 2025 until the conclusion of the Twenty-
        Second AGM.

3. To re-elect Eugene Hon Kah Weng who is retiring under Clause 115(1) of the Constitution       Ordinary Resolution 2
        of the Company.

4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring under Clause 122 of the Constitution
        of the Company:

     (i) Gan Thiam Chai                                                                          Ordinary Resolution 3

     (ii) Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz                                                          Ordinary Resolution 4

     (iii) Gan Meng Hoi                                                                          Ordinary Resolution 5

     (iv) Gan Ka Hui                                                                             Ordinary Resolution 6

     (v) Gan Ka Ooi                                                                              Ordinary Resolution 7

     (vi) Neel Naresh Nagrecha                                                                   Ordinary Resolution 8

        *	En. Abdul Razak Bin Shakor has expressed his intention not to seek re-election as     Ordinary Resolution 9
             a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director and shall accordingly retire after the
             conclusion of the forthcoming 21st AGM.

		
5. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the

        Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions:

6. Continuation in office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin      Ordinary Resolution 10
        Nik Daud

        “THAT approval be and is hereby given to Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud, who will serve as
        an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1
        January 2026, to continue to act as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the
        Company.”

182
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial                               Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements                              Information

                         NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions               Ordinary Resolution 11
        of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the following related parties (“Proposed Renewal of         Ordinary Resolution 12
        Shareholders’ Mandate”):                                                                        Ordinary Resolution 13

        (i) Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited

        (ii) MH Delight Sdn Bhd

        (iii) Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd

        (Collectively referred to as “Related Parties”)

        “THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company, to enter and give effect to
        the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (hereinafter to
        be referred to as “Recurrent Transactions”) with the above Related Parties as stated in
        Section 2.4 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025 which are necessary for
        the Company’s day-to-day operations subject further to the following:

        (i) the Recurrent Transactions contemplated are in the ordinary course of business
                 and on terms which are not more favourable to Related Parties than those generally
                 available to the public, and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders;

        (ii) the approval is subject to annual renewal and shall only continue to be in force
                 until:

                 (a)	the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the forthcoming
                           AGM of the Company at which the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
                           Mandate is approved, at which time it will lapse unless by a resolution
                           passed at the AGM the mandate is again renewed;

                 (b)	the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after
                           the date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies
                           Act 2016 (“Act”) (but shall not extend to such extensions as may be allowed
                           pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or

                 (c)	revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general
                        meeting,

        whichever is the earlier; and

        (iii) the disclosure of the breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent
                 Transactions conducted pursuant to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
                 Mandate in the Annual Report of the Company based on the following information:

                 (a) the type of Recurrent Transactions entered into; and

                 (b)	the names of the Related Parties involved in each type of the Recurrent
                           Transactions entered into and their relationship with the Company.

        AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and
        things to give full effect to the Recurrent Transactions contemplated and/or authorised
        by this resolution, as the Directors of the Company, in their absolute discretion, deem fit.”

                                                                                                                     183
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                                     ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

8. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares.         Ordinary Resolution 14

        “THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby
        authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of
        the next AGM of the Company upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes
        as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit provided that the aggregate
        number of shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number
        of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at the time of issue,
        subject to the Constitution of the Company and approval of all the relevant regulatory
        bodies being obtained for such allotment and issue.

        THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 64 of the Constitution
        of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive
        rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to
        the existing issued Kawan shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this
        Mandate.

        AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally
        in all respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
        not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution
        that which may be declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new
        shares.”

9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.

        “THAT subject to the Act, the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market Listing
        Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals
        of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any), the Company be
        and is hereby authorised to utilise an amount not exceeding the audited retained
        profits as at 31 December 2024 to purchase such amount of ordinary shares in the
        Company (“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority”) as may be determined
        by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such
        terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of
        the Company provided that the aggregate number of shares purchased and/or held
        pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
        issued shares of the Company.

        THAT an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained profits be allocated by the
        Company for the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority.

        THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company to decide at
        their absolute discretion to either retain the shares so purchased as treasury shares
        (as defined in Section 127 of the Act) and/or to cancel the shares so purchased and if
        retained as treasury shares, may resell the treasury shares and/or to distribute them as
        share dividend and/or subsequently cancel them.

        THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately upon the
        passing of this resolution and will expire at:

        (i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, at which time the said authority
                 will lapse unless by an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting of the
                 Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;

184
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial                        Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements                       Information

                         NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required   Ordinary Resolution 15
                 by law to be held; or

        (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders in a
                 general meeting;

        whichever occurs first, but not so as to prejudice the completion of the purchase(s) by
        the Company before the aforesaid expiry date and in any event, in accordance with
        the provisions of the guidelines issued by Bursa Securities and/or any other relevant
        governmental and/or regulatory authorities (if any).

        AND THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to take all steps necessary to
        implement, complete and do all such acts and things (including executing all such
        documents as may be required) as they may consider expedient or necessary to give
        effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority as may be agreed or
        allowed by any relevant governmental and/or regulatory authority.”

10. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.

BY ORDER OF THE BOARD

TAI YIT CHAN (MAICSA 7009143)
SSM PC No.: 202008001023

TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513)
SSM PC No.: 202008001075

Company Secretaries
Selangor Darul Ehsan

Date: 30 April 2025

EXPLANATORY NOTES:

1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements

        Agenda item no. 1 is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
        approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for
        voting.

2. Ordinary Resolutions 2 – 8 - Re-election of Directors

        The retiring Directors under Ordinary Resolution 2 pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s Constitution and Ordinary
        Resolutions 3 – 8 pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution (“Retiring Directors”), being eligible, have
        offered themselves for re-election.

        For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Retiring Directors to stand for re-election at this 21st AGM and in line
        with Practice 5.1 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021, the Nominating Committee (“NC”) has reviewed
        and assessed the Retiring Directors from the annual assessment and evaluation of the Board, Board Committees,
        Independent Directors and individual Directors’ fitness and propriety with reference to the Directors’ Fit and Proper
        Policy for the financial year under review.

                                                                                                                                                                         185
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                  ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        The NC had recommended that, the re-election of the Retiring Directors to be based on the following:

        (i) satisfactory performance and have met Board’s expectation in discharging his/her duties and responsibilities
                 with due care and in a commendable manner;

        (ii) met the fit and proper criteria in discharging his/her roles as director of the Company;

        (iii) level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Director; and

        (iv) his/her ability to act in the best interest of the Company in decision-making and developing the Group’s business
                 strategies.

        The Board had endorsed the recommendation of the NC on the re-election of the Retiring Directors.

        The profiles of the Retiring Directors are set out in the Board of Directors’ Profiles of the Annual Report 2024 of the
        Company.

3. Ordinary Resolution 10 - Continuing in Office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud

        The proposed Ordinary Resolution 10 is to seek shareholders’ approval on the retention of Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud
        who will serve as Independent Director in the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years on 1 January 2026.

        The NC has assessed the independence of Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik Daud and recommended him to continue to act as
        Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company based on the following justifications:-

        (i) He fulfilled the criteria under the definition of Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements
                 of Bursa Securities, and thus, he would be able to provide check and balance and bring an element of objectivity
                 to the Board;

        (ii) He is familiar with the Company’s business operations and is able to advise the Board diligently on business
                 matters;

        (iii) He provides a check and balance and brings an element of objectivity to the Board;
        (iv) He has devoted sufficient time and attention to their professional obligations for informed and balanced decision

                 making by actively participating in board discussion and providing an independent voice to the Board; and
        (v) He has exercised his due care during his tenure as a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company

                 and carried out his professional duties in the best interest of the Company and shareholders.

4. Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13 - Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of
        a Revenue or Trading Nature

        The Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13 proposed, if passed, will empower the Directors from the date of the 21st AGM, to deal
        with the related party transactions involving recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are necessary
        for the Company’s day-to-day operations. These recurrent related party transactions are in the ordinary course of
        business and are on terms not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and
        not to the detriment of the minority shareholders.

        This authority unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company and subject
        always to provision (ii) of the resolution.

        For further information on Ordinary Resolutions 11, 12 & 13, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April
        2025 accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

5. Ordinary Resolution 14 - Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to allot and issue shares

        The Ordinary Resolution 14 proposed under item 8 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general
        mandate for issuance of shares by the Company under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will
        provide flexibility for the Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company
        up to an amount not exceeding in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the
        working capital or strategic development of the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved

186
Kawan At  This is Kawan         Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good                       Financial            Other
A Glance  Food Berhad           Review         Corporate Governance                         Statements           Information

                                NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority,
        unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM.

        At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility
        permitted to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities
        without making a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the
        general mandate is sought, the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.

        The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the
        previous AGM.

6. Ordinary Resolution 15 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares

        The proposed Ordinary Resolution 15, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to take all such steps
        as are necessary or expedient to implement, finalise, complete and/or to effect the purchase(s) of shares by the
        Company as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company. The authority will, unless
        revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next AGM of
        the Company or the expiry of the period within which the next AGM of the Company is required by law to be held.

        For further information on Ordinary Resolution 15, please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025
        accompanying the Annual Report of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.

Notes:

1.      For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia

        Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 June 2025. Only a member whose name

        appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.

2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
         authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
         shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
         securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
         the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
         authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
         with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.

5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
         by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
         which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.

        a. In hard copy form

          In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s
          office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
          Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

        b. By electronic means

          The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
          Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement. Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom
          at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.

6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.

7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Saturday, 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.

8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
         the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
         Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
         the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
         notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.

                                                                                                                              187
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                   ANNUAL REPORT 2024

NOTICE OF THE TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
         of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
         Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
         executed in the following manner:

     a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
              under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

     b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
              affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:

     i.  at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or

     ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is
              incorporated.

10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, all the resolutions set out in the notice of
         any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.

Personal data privacy:

By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any adjournment
thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its
agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the
AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating
to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules,
regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or rep-
resentative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representa-
tive(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands,
losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.

188
Kawan At       This is Kawan  Our Strategic            Our Commitment to Good   Financial   Other
A Glance       Food Berhad    Review                   Corporate Governance     Statements  Information

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad

Day and Date   : Monday, 23 June 2025

Time           : 10.30 a.m.

Meeting Venue  : Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19

		 Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah

		 Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C

		 42920 Pulau Indah

		 Selangor Darul Ehsan

		Malaysia

Dear Valued Shareholders,

1. REGISTRATION
        • Registration will start at 9.30 a.m. at the Meeting Venue and will end at a time directed by the Chairman of the AGM.
        •	Please produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) at the registration counter for verification and registration.
             Only original MyKad/Passport will be accepted for the purpose of identity verification.
        • Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
        •	Please note that no person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person even with the original MyKad/
             Passport of that person.
        •	Upon completion of the registration process, you will be given an identification barcode wristband to enter the
             meeting hall. Please be reminded that there will be no replacement in the event that you lose or misplace the
             barcode wristband.
        • Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
        • Please note that you will not be allowed to enter the meeting hall without wearing the barcode wristband.
        •	The registration counter will handle only verification of identity and registration. If you have any enquiries, please
             proceed to the Help Desk.

2. HELP DESK
        • Please proceed to the Help Desk for any clarification or enquiries.
        • The Help Desk will also handle the revocation of proxy appointments.

3. ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AGM
        •	Only members whose names appear on the General Meeting Record of Depositors as at
             17 June 2025 will be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on
             his/her behalf.

4. ANNUAL REPORT 2024
        •	The Company’s Annual Report 2024 is available at the website of the Company,
             http://kawanfood.com/index.php/our-company/investor-relations/ and Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad,
             www.bursamalaysia.com.
        •	If you wish to request a printed copy of the Annual Report 2024 prior to the AGM, please forward your request
             by completing the Request Form provided. However, we hope you would consider the environmental and
             sustainability concerns, and refrain from requesting a printed copy of the Annual Report 2024.

5. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY, CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
        •	A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the
             case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but
             need not be a member of the Company.
        •	A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend,
             speak and vote at the same AGM on his/her behalf. If you are unable to attend the AGM and wish to appoint a proxy/
             attorney/ authorized representative to vote on your behalf, please submit your proxy form in accordance with the
             notes and instructions stated in the notice of AGM.

      APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
      •	You may submit your original proxy form to the office of the Share Registrar of our Company, Boardroom Share

           Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
           Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia or by email to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com, not less than forty-
           eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding of meeting or adjourned meeting and in default the
           instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
      •	The proxy form may also be lodged electronically via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
           https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment via BSIP.

                                                                                                                                                                       189
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                                                             ANNUAL REPORT 2024

ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad

     APPOINTMENT OF CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS, AUTHORISED NOMINEE AND EXEMPT AUTHORISED NOMINEE
     •	For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of

          appointment of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
          No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate
          of appointment of authorised representative should be executed in the following manner:

     (a)	If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
                  should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

		 (b)	If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
                           representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:

              (i)  at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or

              (ii)	any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the
                             corporate member is incorporated.

     •	You may write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of member, CDS account number
          accompanied with the certificate of appointment of corporate representative or proxy form (as the case may be)
          to submit the request latest by 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.

     •	Please provide a copy of the corporate representative’s or proxy’s MyKad (front and back) or passport, as well as
          his/her email address.

     •	The appointment of authorized representative may also be lodged electronically via BSIP at
          https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. For further information, kindly refer to Table 1 below for proxy appointment
          via BSIP.

Step 1 -      Note: If you have already signed up with BSIP, you are not required to register again. You may proceed to
Register      Step 2.
Online with   • Access the website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com.
BSIP (for     • Click “Register” to sign up as a user.
first-time    • Complete registration with all the required information. Upload and attach a softcopy of your MyKad (front
registration
only)            and back) or Passport. Click “Register”.
              • You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on “Verify Email Address” from

                 the email received to continue with the registration.
              • Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP Online for verification of your mobile number.
              • Click on “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to

                 enter the OTP code and click “Enter” to complete the process.
              • Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be pending for final

                 verification.
              • An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one (1) business day.

                 Subsequently, you can log in at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com with the email address and
                 password filled up by you during the registration to proceed.

Step 2 -      For Individual and Corporate holders.
Appointment   • Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
of Proxy      • Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL

                 GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
              • Click “Submit eProxy form”.
              • For Corporate holders, please select the companies (if you are representing more than 1 company).
              • Enter your CDS account number and the number of shares held.
              • Select your proxy — either the Chairman of the meeting or an individual named proxy(ies).
              • Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions and click “Next”.
              • Enter the particulars of your proxy(ies) and click “Next”.
              • Indicate your voting instructions — FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN. If you wish to have your proxy(ies) to act

                 upon his/her discretion, please indicate DISCRETIONARY.
              • Review and confirm your proxy appointment. Click “Apply”. Download or print the eProxy form as an

                 acknowledgement.

190
Kawan At  This is Kawan  Our Strategic  Our Commitment to Good  Financial   Other
A Glance  Food Berhad    Review         Corporate Governance    Statements  Information

                                                                         ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

                         For the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of Kawan Food Berhad

                          For Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
                          • Log in to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
                          • Click “Meeting Event” and select from the list of companies “KAWAN FOOD BERHAD TWENTY-FIRST ANNUAL

                              GENERAL MEETING” and click “Enter”.
                          • Click “Submit eProxy form”.
                          • Select the nominee(s)/company(ies) that you represent.
                          • Download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form”.
                          • Prepare the file for appointment of proxy(ies) by inserting the required data.
                          • Upload the duly completed proxy appointment file
                          • Review and confirm your proxy appointment.
                          • Download or print the eProxy form as an acknowledgement.

- If you wish to attend the AGM yourself, please do not submit any proxy form. You will not be allowed to attend the AGM
        together with a proxy appointed by you.

- If you have submitted your proxy form prior to the AGM and subsequently decided to attend the AGM yourself, please
        proceed to the Help Desk to revoke the appointment of your proxy.

6. REVOCATION OF PROXY
        If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish
        to participate in the AGM yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com or via electronic means (as
        the case may be) to revoke the earlier appointed proxy(ies) at least forty-eight (48) hours before the AGM or proceed
        to the Help desk counter on the AGM day to do proxy revocation. On revocation, your proxy(ies) will not be allowed to
        participate in the AGM. In such event, you should advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.

7. POLL VOTING
        The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
        Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. All resolutions set out in the Notice of the 21st AGM will be put to a vote by way of poll.
        A Poll Administrator will be appointed to conduct the polling process and Independent Scrutineers will be appointed to
        verify the results of the poll.

8. DOOR GIFT
        Door gift will be provided to shareholders/proxies in the following manner:

        (a) One (1) door gift for one (1) shareholder.

        (b) For a shareholder who has been appointed as a proxy by another shareholder, he/she is only entitled to one (1)
                 door gift.

        (c) For a shareholder who appoints more than one (1) proxy, door gift will be provided to both two (2) proxies, unless
                 they have not been entitled.

        (d) If a proxy represents more than one (1) shareholder, he/she is entitled to one (1) door gift only.

        (e) If the proxy/proxies has/have collected the door gift earlier, shareholders who decided to attend and request to
                 revoke the proxy appointment will not be given any door gift.

9. ENQUIRIES

	If you have any queries prior to the AGM, please contact Boardroom during office hours on Mondays to Fridays from
        9.00 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. (except on public holidays):

        Share Registrar
        Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
        Tel : +603-7890 4700
        Fax : +603-7890 4670
        Email : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com

                                                                                                                                                                          191
This page has been intentionally left blank.
              KAWAN FOOD BERHAD                                     No. of ordinary shares held CDS account no. of holder

              http://www.kawanfood.com
              Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)

              (Incorporated in Malaysia)

Proxy Form

I/We,                                                            (name of shareholder as per NRIC/Passport, in capital letters)

NRIC No./ Passport No./Registration No.                                       Tel:                   of

                                                                                                                    (full address)

being a *member/members of KAWAN FOOD BERHAD hereby appoint(s):-

Full Name                                 NRIC No./Passport No.                                      Proportion of Shareholdings
Email Address                             Contact No.
                                                                                                     No. of Shares                 %

* and/ or (delete as appropriate)         NRIC No./Passport No.                                      Proportion of Shareholdings
 Full Name                                Contact No.
                                                                                                     No. of Shares                 %
 Email Address

or failing *him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as *my/our proxy to attend and vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twen-
ty-First Annual General Meeting ("21st AGM") of Kawan Food Berhad ("Kawan" or "the Company") to be held at Lot 129351, Jalan
Sungai Pinang 4/19, Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C, 42920, Pulau Indah, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia on Monday, 23 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.

My/our proxy/proxies is/are to vote as indicated below.

Item Agenda
No.

1.     To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 together with the Reports of the

       Directors’ and Auditors’ thereon.

                                                                                                     Resolutions For Against

2.     To approve the Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors of the Company of up to  Ordinary

       RM1,625,000 for the period from 24 June 2025 until the conclusion of the Twenty-Second AGM. Resolution 1

3.     To re-elect Eugene Hon Kah Weng who is to retire pursuant to Clause 115(1) of the Company’s   Ordinary

       Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.                         Resolution 2

4.     To re-elect Gan Thiam Chai who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s             Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 3
       Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.

5.     To re-elect Noor Alina Binti Mohamad Faiz who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the        Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 4
       Company’s Constitution and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.

6.     To re-elect Gan Meng Hoi who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution Ordinary

       and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.                                      Resolution 5

7.     To re-elect Gan Ka Hui who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution  Ordinary

       and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.                                      Resolution 6

8.     To re-elect Gan Ka Ooi who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s Constitution  Ordinary

       and being eligible, has offered herself for re-election.                                      Resolution 7

9.     To re-elect Neel Naresh Nagrecha who is to retire pursuant to Clause 122 of the Company’s       Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 8
       Constitution and being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.

10. To re-appoint RSM Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to      Ordinary

       fix their remuneration.                                                                       Resolution 9

Special Business

11.    Continuation in office as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director – Dr. Nik Ismail Bin Nik     Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 10
       Daud.

12. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a      Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with Shana Foods Limited and Rubicon Food Products Limited.         Resolution 11

13. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a      Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with MH Delight Sdn Bhd.                                            Resolution 12

14. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a      Ordinary

       Revenue or Trading Nature with Hot & Roll Holdings Sdn Bhd.                                   Resolution 13

15. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to allot and         Ordinary
           issue shares.                                                                             Resolution 14

16. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its own Ordinary Shares.                  Ordinary
                                                                                                     Resolution 15

(Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate box against the resolutions on how you wish your proxy to vote. The proxy is to vote on the
resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting as you have indicated. If no specific instruction as to voting is given, this form will be taken to
authorise the proxy to vote at his/her discretion.)
* Strike out whichever is not applicable.
* if you wish to appoint other person(s) to be your proxy/proxies, kindly delete the words “the Chairman of the Meeting or failing him/her”

      and insert the name(s) of the person(s) desired.

Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder

Date:

Notes:

1. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
      Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 June 2025. Only a member whose name
      appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.

2. A member entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly
      authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.

3. A Member shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting and the appointment
      shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.

4. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
      securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, there is no limit to
      the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
      authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance
      with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.

5. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
      by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at
      which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.

      a. In hard copy form
            In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the original proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar’s office,
            Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
            Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

      b. By electronic means
            The proxy form can be electronically lodged with Boardroom via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
            https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Details for such lodgement.
            Alternatively, the proxy form can be emailed to Boardroom at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com.

6. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.

7. Last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Saturday, 21 June 2025 at 10.30 a.m.

8. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share Registrar of
      the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan,
      Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
      the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified
      notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.

9. For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment
      of authorised representative with the Share Registrar of the Company at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
      Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
      executed in the following manner:

      a. If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be executed
            under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.

      b. If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative should be
            affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:

            i. at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
            ii. any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is

                  incorporated.

10. Pursuant to paragraph 8.29A(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
      in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by poll.

Personal Data Privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data
privacy terms set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 30 April 2025.
Fold This Flap For Sealing

2nd Fold Here                                                                    AFFIX
                                                                                STAMP
                                 KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
                                      Registration No. 200401001942 (640445-V)
                                 c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
                                      Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)
                                 11th Floor, Menara Symphony
                                 No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
                                 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
                                 Selangor Darul Ehsan
                                 Malaysia

1st Fold Here
This page has been intentionally left blank.
                              WWW.KAWANFOOD.COM

                                               KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
                                            200401001942 (640445-V)
                                 Tel : +603 3099 1188 Fax : +603 3099 1028
                                     Sales & Marketing : +603 5511 8388
                                          Email : info@kawanfood.com
                                    Lot 129351, Jalan Sungai Pinang 4/19,
Taman Perindustrian Pulau Indah, Selangor Halal Hub, Fasa 2C, 42920 Pulau Indah,
                                        Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
