                                  > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                   NOTES TO THE
                                    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. CORPORATE INFORMATION

        Hwa Tai Industries Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled
        in Malaysia and listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The registered office and the
        principal place of business of the Company are both located at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
        Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim.

        The principal activities of the Company are that of a biscuit manufacturer and investment holding. The
        principal activities of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.

        There have been no significant changes in the nature of these principal activities during the financial year.

        The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution
        of the directors on 29 March 2022.

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION

2.1 Statement of compliance

The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), the International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs

The Group and the Company have adopted the following amendments/improvements to MFRSs for the
current financial year:

Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs

MFRS 4    Insurance Contracts

MFRS 7    Financial Instruments: Disclosures

MFRS 9    Financial Instruments

MFRS 16   Leases*

MFRS 139  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement

* Early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16 Leases issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards
        Board (“MASB”) on 6 April 2021.

                                                              47
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
        2.2 Adoption of amendments/improvements to MFRSs (Continued)
                The adoption of the above amendments/improvements to MFRSs did not have any significant effect on
                the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and did not result in significant changes to
                the Group’s and the Company’s existing accounting policies, except for those as discussed below.
                Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial Instruments, MFRS 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
                Measurement, MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and MFRS 16
                Leases
                The Group and the Company have adopted the amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS
                4 and MFRS 16 for the first time in the current year. The Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—Phase 2
                amends some specific requirements in MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16, with respect
                to issues that affect financial reporting during the reform of an interest rate benchmark.
                The amendments provide a practical expedient whereby an entity would not derecognise or adjust the
                carrying amount of financial instruments for modifications required by interest rate benchmark reform,
                but would instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmark.
                On hedging relationship, entities would be required to amend the formal designation of a hedging
                relationship to reflect the modifications and/or changes made to the hedged item and/or hedging
                instruments as a result of the reform. However, the modification does not constitute discontinuation of
                the hedging relationship nor the designation of a new hedging relationship.
                The Group and the Company elected the practical expedient to not derecognise or adjust the carrying
                amount of financial instruments for modifications required by interest rate benchmark reform, but
                would instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmark.
                Amendment to MFRS 16 Leases
                The Group and the Company have adopted the amendment(s) to MFRS 16 that issued on 5 June 2020
                and early adopted the amendment(s) to MFRS 16 that issued on 6 April 2021 that exempts lessees
                from having to consider individual lease contracts to determine whether rent concessions occurring
                as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic are lease modifications and allows lessees to
                account for such rent concessions as if they were not lease modifications, applying to reduction in
                lease payments originally due on or before 30 June 2021 and 30 June 2022.

48
                                             > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)

2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective

(a) The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new MFRS and amendments/
        improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective:

			                                                                            Effective for
			                                                                      financial periods
			                                                                 beginning on or after

New MFRS

MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts                                           1 January 2023

		                                                                  1 January 2022^/
                                                                    1 January 2023#
Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs                                     1 January 2022/
                                                                    1 January 2023#
MFRS 1    First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial                1 January 2023#

          Reporting Standards                                       1 January 2023#
                                                                    1 January 2022^/
MFRS 3    Business Combinations                                     1 January 2023#

MFRS 5    Non-current Assets Held for Sale and                                 Deferred
          Discontinued Operations                                   1 January 2023#
MFRS 7    Financial Instruments: Disclosures                         1 January 2022^
MFRS 9    Financial Instruments
                                                                      1 January 2023
MFRS 10   Consolidated Financial Statements                          1 January 2023/
MFRS 15   Revenue from Contracts with Customers                     1 January 2023#
MFRS 16   Leases                                                    1 January 2023#
MFRS 17   Insurance Contracts                                         1 January 2023
MFRS 101  Presentation of Financial Statements
                                                                      1 January 2023
MFRS 107  Statements of Cash Flows                                   1 January 2022/
MFRS 108  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting                1 January 2023#
          Estimates and Errors                                      1 January 2023#
MFRS 112  Income Taxes
MFRS 116  Property, Plant and Equipment                                       Deferred/
                                                                    1 January 2023#
MFRS 119 Employee Benefits                                          1 January 2023#
MFRS 128 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures               1 January 2023#
                                                                     1 January 2022/
MFRS 132  Financial Instruments: Presentation                       1 January 2023#
MFRS 136  Impairment of Assets                                      1 January 2023#
MFRS 137  Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets  1 January 2023#
                                                                     1 January 2022^
MFRS 138  Intangible Assets
MFRS 140  Investment Property
MFRS 141  Agriculture

^ The Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020
# Amendments as to the consequence of effective of MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts

                                                                                49
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
        2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
                (Continued)
                (b) The Group and the Company plan to adopt the above applicable new MFRS and amendments/
                        improvements to MFRSs when they become effective. A brief discussion on the above significant
                        new MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs are summarised below.
                        Amendments to MFRS 3 Business Combinations
                        The amendments update MFRS 3 by replacing a reference to an old version of the Conceptual
                        Framework for Financial Reporting with a reference to the latest version which was issued by
                        MASB in April 2018.
                        Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128 Investments in
                        Associates and Joint Ventures
                        These amendments address an acknowledged inconsistency between the requirements in MFRS
                        10 and those in MFRS 128, in dealing with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor
                        and its associate or joint venture.
                        The main consequence of the amendments is that a full gain or loss is recognised when a
                        transaction involves a business, as defined in MFRS 3. A partial gain or loss is recognised when
                        a transaction involves assets that do not constitute a business.
                        Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements
                        The amendments include specifying that an entity’s right to defer settlement of a liability for at
                        least twelve months after the reporting period must have substance and must exist at the end
                        of the reporting period; clarifying that classification of liability is unaffected by the likelihood
                        of the entity to exercise its right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months
                        after the reporting period; clarifying how lending conditions affect classification of a liability; and
                        clarifying requirements for classifying liabilities an entity will or may settle by issuing its own
                        equity instruments.
                        The amendments require an entity to disclose its material accounting policy information rather
                        than significant accounting policies. The amendments, amongst others, also include examples
                        of circumstances in which an entity is likely to consider an accounting policy information to be
                        material to its financial statements. To support this amendments, MFRS Practice Statement 2
                        was also amended to provide guidance on how to apply the concept of materiality to accounting
                        policy information disclosures. The guidance and examples provided in the MFRS Practice
                        Statement 2 highlight the need to focus on entity-specific information and demonstrate how
                        the four-step materiality process can address standardised (or boilerplate) information and
                        duplication of requirements of MFRSs in the accounting policy information disclosures.

50
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
        2.3 New MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs that have been issued, but yet to be effective
                (Continued)
                (b) The Group and the Company plan to adopt the above applicable new MFRS and amendments/
                        improvements to MFRSs when they become effective. A brief discussion on the above significant
                        new MFRS and amendments/improvements to MFRSs are summarised below. (Continued)
                        Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
                        The amendments revise the definition of accounting estimates to clarify how an entity should
                        distinguish changes in accounting policies from changes in accounting estimates. The
                        distinction is important because the changes in accounting estimates are applied prospectively to
                        transactions, other events, or conditions from the date of that change, but changes in accounting
                        policies are generally also applied retrospectively to past transactions and other past events.
                        Amendments to MFRS 112 Income Taxes
                        The amendments specify how an entity should account for deferred tax on transactions such as
                        leases and decommissioning obligation.
                        In specified circumstances, MFRS 112 exempts an entity from recognising deferred tax when
                        it recognises assets or liabilities for the first time. There had been some uncertainties about
                        whether the exemption from recognising deferred tax applied to transactions such as leases and
                        decommissioning obligations – transactions for which an entity recognises both an asset and a
                        liability. The amendments clarify that the exemption does not apply and that entity is required to
                        recognise deferred tax on such transactions.
                        Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment
                        The amendments prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of property, plant and equipment
                        amounts received from selling items produced while the entity is preparing the asset for its
                        intended use. Instead, an entity shall recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or
                        loss.
                        Amendments to MFRS 137 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
                        The amendments specify which costs an entity includes in determining the cost of fulfilling a
                        contract for the purpose of assessing whether the contract is onerous.

                                                                                                                                                     51
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
        2.4 Functional and presentation currency
                The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the
                primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
                financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
                currency.
        2.5 Basis of measurement
                The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost
                basis, except as otherwise disclosed in Note 3.

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
        Unless otherwise stated, the following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all the financial
        years presented in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
        3.1 Basis of consolidation
                The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
                subsidiaries. The financial statements of the subsidiaries and associate used in the preparation of
                the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company.
                Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
                (a) Subsidiaries and business combination
                        Subsidiaries are entities (including structure entities) over which the Group is exposed, or has
                        rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the acquirees and has the ability to affect
                        those returns through its power over the acquirees.
                        The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
                        from the date the Group obtains control of the acquirees until the date the Group loses control of
                        the acquirees.
                        The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations from the
                        acquisition date.
                        For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
                        • the fair value of the consideration transferred, calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date
                                fair value of assets transferred (including contingent consideration), the liabilities incurred
                                to former owners of the acquiree and the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any
                                amounts that relate to pre-existing relationships or other arrangements before or during
                                the negotiations for the business combination, that are not part of the exchange for the
                                acquiree, will be excluded from the business combination accounting and be accounted
                                for separately; plus

52
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)

                (a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Continued)

                        For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
                        (Continued)

                        • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
                                or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date
                                (the choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis); plus

                        • if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the
                                previously held equity interest in the acquiree; less

                        • the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities (including contingent
                                liabilities) assumed at the acquisition date.

                        When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss
                        at the acquisition date.

                        Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
                        Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.

                        If the business combination is achieved in stages, the Group remeasures the previously held equity
                        interest in the acquiree to its acquisition-date fair value, and recognises the resulting gain or loss,
                        if any, in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date
                        that have been previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
                        or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings on the same basis as would be required if the
                        acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.

                        If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
                        in which the business combination occurs, the Group uses provisional fair value amounts for the
                        items for which the accounting is incomplete. The provisional amounts are adjusted to reflect
                        new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date,
                        including additional assets or liabilities identified in the measurement period. The measurement
                        period for completion of the initial accounting ends as soon as the Group receives the information
                        it was seeking about facts and circumstances or learns that more information is not obtainable,
                        subject to the measurement period not exceeding one year from the acquisition date.

                        Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
                        former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
                        the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any gain or loss
                        arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
                        the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
                        Subsequently, it is accounted for as an associate or a financial asset.

                        Changes in the Group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
                        are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between the Group’s share of net assets
                        before and after the change, and the fair value of the consideration received or paid, is recognised
                        directly in equity.

                                                                                                                                                     53
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)
                (b) Non-controlling interests
                        Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly,
                        to owners of the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial
                        position within equity.
                        Losses attributable to the non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests
                        even if the losses exceed the non-controlling interests.
                (c) Associates
                        Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, to the
                        financial and operating policies.
                        Investment in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the
                        equity method.
                        Under the equity method, the investment in associates are initially recognised at cost. The cost
                        of investment includes transaction costs. Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to
                        recognise changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate.
                        When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of
                        that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition of
                        further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made
                        payments on behalf of the associate.
                        When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest
                        in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value
                        and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. Any difference
                        between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value
                        of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
                        When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of significant
                        influence, any retained interest is not remeasured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease
                        in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other
                        comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or
                        loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
                        liabilities.

54
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.1 Basis of consolidation (Continued)

                (d) Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                        Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
                        intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

                        Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated
                        against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
                        eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of
                        impairment.

        3.2 Separate financial statements

                In the Company’s statement of financial position, investment in subsidiaries and associate are
                measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held
                for sale or distribution. The cost of investment includes transaction costs. The policy for the recognition
                and measurement of impairment losses shall be applied on the same basis as would be required for
                impairment of non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 3.9(b).

                Contributions to subsidiaries are amounts which the settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur
                in the foreseeable future is, in substance considered as part of the Company’s investment in the
                subsidiaries.

        3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations

                (a) Translation of foreign currency transactions

                        Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
                        entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the transactions dates.

                        At the end of each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
                        retranslated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.

                        Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
                        retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined. Non-monetary
                        items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the
                        historical rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.

                        Foreign exchange differences arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary items are
                        recognised in profit or loss except for monetary item that are designated as a hedging instrument
                        in either a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. When
                        settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned
                        nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss
                        in the separate financial statements of the parent company or the individual financial statements
                        of the foreign operation. In the consolidated financial statements, the exchange differences are
                        considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised initially
                        in other comprehensive income until its disposal, at which time, the cumulative amount is
                        reclassified to profit or loss.

                                                                                                                                                     55
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.3 Foreign currency transactions and operations (Continued)
                (a) Translation of foreign currency transactions (Continued)
                        The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in
                        line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation
                        differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income
                        or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
                (b) Translation of foreign operations
                        The assets and liabilities of foreign operations denominated in the functional currency different
                        from the presentation currency, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
                        acquisition, are translated into the presentation currency at exchange rates prevailing at the
                        reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates
                        at the dates of the transactions.
                        Exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
                        However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
                        share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests.
                        When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control
                        is lost, the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserves related to that foreign
                        operation is reclassified to profit or loss. For a partial disposal not involving loss of control of
                        a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of cumulative amount
                        in foreign exchange translation reserve is reattributed to non-controlling interests. For partial
                        disposals of associates that do not result in the Group losing significant influence, the proportionate
                        share of the cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation reserve is reclassified to profit or
                        loss.
        3.4 Financial instruments
                Financial instruments are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the
                Group and the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instruments.
                Except for the trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the
                Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient, the financial instruments are recognised
                initially at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value
                through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
                financial asset and financial liability. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through
                profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing
                component or for which the Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient are measured
                at the transaction price determined under MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

56
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
                An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract and accounted for as a
                derivative if, and only if, it is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host
                contract; it is a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the
                definition of a derivative; and the hybrid contract is not measured as fair value through profit or loss.
                The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
                accordance with the policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
                A derivative embedded within a hybrid contract containing a financial asset host is not accounted for
                separately. The financial asset host together with the embedded derivative is required to be classified
                in its entirety as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
                (a) Subsequent measurement
                        The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows:
                        (i) Financial assets
                                For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified as financial
                                assets at amortised cost.
                                The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing the financial
                                assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial assets.
                                The Group and the Company reclassify financial assets when and only when their business
                                model for managing those assets change.
                                Debt instruments
                                Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
                                business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. The
                                Group and the Company classify their debt instruments at amortised cost.
                                Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash
                                flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
                                Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest
                                method and are subject to impairment. The policy for the recognition and measurement of
                                impairment is in accordance with Note 3.9(a). Gains and losses are recognised in profit or
                                loss when the financial asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.

                                                                                                                                                     57
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
                (a) Subsequent measurement (Continued)
                        The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Continued):
                        (i) Financial assets (Continued)
                                Equity instruments
                                The Group and the Company subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value.
                                Upon initial recognition, the Group and the Company can make an irrevocable election to
                                classify its equity investments that is not held for trading as equity instruments designated
                                at fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”). The classification is
                                determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
                                Gains and losses on these financial assets are not recycled to profit or loss. Dividends
                                are recognised as other income in the profit or loss when the right of payment has been
                                established, except when the Group and the Company benefit from such proceeds as a
                                recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded
                                in other comprehensive income. Equity instruments designated at FVOCI are not subject to
                                impairment assessment.
                        (ii) Financial liabilities
                                The Group and the Company classify their financial liabilities at amortised cost.
                                Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using
                                the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the
                                financial liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
                (b) Financial guarantee contracts
                        A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
                        to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
                        when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
                        Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, net of transaction
                        costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequent to initial
                        recognition, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined
                        in accordance with Section 5.5 of MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised less, when
                        appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
                        MFRS 15.

58
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
                (c) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets
                        A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
                        terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
                        convention in the marketplace concerned.
                        A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as
                        applicable, using trade date accounting (i.e. the date the Group and the Company commit
                        themselves purchase or sell an asset).
                        Trade date accounting refers to:
                        (i) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and
                        (ii) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
                                recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
                        Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and corresponding liability until the
                        settlement date when title passes.
                (d) Derecognition
                        A financial asset or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when:
                        (i) the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or
                        (ii) the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from
                                the asset or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without
                                material delay to a third party; and either (a) the Group and the Company have transferred
                                substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group and the Company have
                                neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but
                                have transferred control of the asset.
                        The Group and the Company evaluate if, and to what extent, they have retained the risks and
                        rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the
                        risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
                        continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
                        case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset
                        and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that
                        the Group and the Company have retained.
                        Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is
                        measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of
                        consideration that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.

                                                                                                                                                     59
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.4 Financial instruments (Continued)
                (d) Derecognition (Continued)
                        On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount (measured at
                        the date of derecognition) and the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less
                        any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
                        A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
                        in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
                        difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash
                        assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
                (e) Offsetting of financial instruments
                        Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the
                        statements of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the
                        recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and
                        settle the liabilities simultaneously.
                        In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity
                        shall not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability.
        3.5 Property, plant and equipment
                (a) Recognition and measurement
                        Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
                        accumulated impairment losses. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment
                        losses is in accordance with Note 3.9(b).
                        Cost of assets includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
                        and any other costs that are directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
                        its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on
                        which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes cost of materials, direct
                        labour, and any other direct attributable costs but excludes internal profits. For qualifying assets,
                        borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs in
                        Note 3.14.
                        Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as
                        part of that equipment.
                        When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives,
                        they are accounted for as a separate items of property, plant and equipment.

60
                                                       > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                               NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

3.5 Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

(b) Subsequent costs

The cost of replacing a part of an item of property, plant and equipment, is included in the asset’s
carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that
the future economic benefits associated with the part will flow to the Group or the Company and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All
other repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit or loss as incurred.

(c) Depreciation

Freehold land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not depreciated. Assets under
construction included in property, plant and equipment are not depreciated as these assets are
not yet available for use.

All other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on straight-line basis by allocating their
depreciable amounts over their remaining useful lives.

Leasehold buildings                                           1% - 10%
Renovation                                                          10%
Plant and machinery
Office equipment, furniture and fittings and motor vehicles   5% - 33%
                                                             10% - 20%

The residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and adjusted as appropriate.

(d) Derecognition

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future
economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset is recognised in profit or loss.

3.6 Leases

(a) Definition of lease

At inception of a contract, the Group and the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains,
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the Company assess
whether:

• the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
• the Group and the Company have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic

        benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group and the Company have the right to direct the use of the asset.

                                                             61
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.6 Leases (Continued)

                (b) Lessee accounting

                        At the lease commencement date, the Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset
                        and a lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-
                        term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value
                        assets.

                        The Group and the Company present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate lines in
                        the statements of financial position.

                        Right-of-use asset

                        The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the
                        lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
                        any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying
                        asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
                        received.

                        The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
                        accumulated impairment losses, and adjust for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. The
                        right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to
                        the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. If the
                        Group and the Company expect to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated
                        over the useful life of the underlying asset. The depreciation starts from the commencement date
                        of the underlying asset. The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment losses is
                        in accordance with Note 3.9(b).

                        Lease liability

                        The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
                        at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
                        be readily determined, the Group and the Company use their weighted average incremental
                        borrowing rate.

                        Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
                        • fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
                        • variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index

                                or rate at the commencement date;
                        • the amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
                        • the exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that

                                option; and
                        • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee

                                exercising an option to terminate the lease.

62
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.6 Leases (Continued)
                (b) Lessee accounting (Continued)
                        Lease liability (Continued)
                        The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
                        on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.
                        The Group and the Company remeasure the lease liability (and make a corresponding adjustment
                        to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:
                        • the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a
                                purchase option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised
                                lease payments using a revised discount rate.
                        • the lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected
                                payment under a guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured
                                by discounting the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate (unless the lease
                                payments change is due to a change in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised
                                discount rate is used).
                        • a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate
                                lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
                                payments using a revised discount rate.
                        Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are not included in the
                        measurement of the lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised
                        as an expense in the period in which the event or condition that triggers those payments occurs
                        and are included in the line “other expenses” in the statements of comprehensive income.
                        The Group and the Company have elected not to separate non-lease components and account for
                        the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
                        Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
                        The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
                        for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the
                        lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
                        another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits
                        from the leased asset are consumed.

                                                                                                                                                     63
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.6 Leases (Continued)

                (c) Lessor accounting

                        A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
                        incidental to ownership. All other leases that do not meet this criterion are classified as operating
                        leases.

                        When the Group and the Company are intermediate lessors, they account for the head lease and
                        the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease
                        by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. If a head lease is a short-term
                        lease to which the Group applies the exemption described in Note 3.6(a), then it classifies the
                        sub-lease as an operating lease.

                        If an entity in the Group is a lessor in a finance lease, it derecognises the underlying asset and
                        recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance
                        income is recognised in profit or loss based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of
                        return on the lessor’s net investment in the finance lease.

                        If an entity in the Group is a lessor in an operating lease, the underlying asset is not derecognised
                        but is presented in the statements of financial position according to the nature of the asset.
                        Lease income from operating leases is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over
                        the lease term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in
                        which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.

                        When a contract includes lease and non-lease components, the Group and the Company apply
                        MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration under the contract to each component.

        3.7 Inventories

                Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

                Cost incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as
                follows:
                • raw materials, packing materials and consumables: purchase costs on a first-in first-out basis.
                • finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials, direct labour and a proportion of

                        manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity. These costs are assigned on a
                        standard costing basis.

                Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
                costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

        3.8 Cash and cash equivalents

                For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand,
                bank balances and deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments with a maturity of three
                months or less, that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an
                insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.

64
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.9 Impairment of assets

                (a) Impairment of financial assets

                        Financial assets measured at amortised cost and lease receivables will be subject to the
                        impairment requirement in MFRS 9 which is related to the accounting for expected credit losses
                        on the financial assets. Expected credit losses are the weighted average of credit losses with the
                        respective risks of a default occurring as the weights.

                        The Group and the Company measure loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
                        credit losses, except for the following, which are measured as 12-month expected credit losses:
                        • debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date; and
                        • other debt securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. risk of default occurring

                                over the expected life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since
                                initial recognition.

                        For trade receivables and lease receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified
                        approach permitted by MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime
                        expected credit losses.

                        When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
                        initial recognition and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group and the Company
                        consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue
                        cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based
                        on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and
                        including forward-looking information.

                        The Group and the Company assume that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
                        significantly if it is more than 30 days past due.

                        The Group and the Company consider a financial asset to be in default when:
                        • the debtor is unable to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full,

                                without taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group and the Company;
                                or
                        • the contractual payment of the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the
                                Group and the Company have reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that
                                a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.

                        Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
                        events over the expected life of a financial instrument.

                        12-month expected credit losses are the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent
                        the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are
                        possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.

                        The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
                        contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                                                                                                                                                     65
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)

                (a) Impairment of financial assets (Continued)

                        Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value
                        of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the
                        difference between the cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and
                        the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.

                        Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial assets.

                        At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
                        amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events
                        that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have
                        occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data about the
                        following events:
                        • significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the debtor;
                        • a breach of contract, such as a default of past due event;
                        • the lender(s) of the debtor, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the debtor’s

                                financial difficulty, having granted to the debtor a concession(s) that the lender(s) would
                                not otherwise consider; or
                        • it is becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.

                        The amount of impairment losses (or reversal) shall be recognised in profit or loss, as an
                        impairment gain or loss. For financial assets measured at FVOCI, the loss allowance shall be
                        recognised in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying amount of the
                        financial asset in the statements of financial position.

                        The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the
                        extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
                        and the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or source of income that could
                        generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial
                        assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with
                        the Group’s and the Company’s procedure for recovery of amounts due.

                (b) Impairment of non-financial assets

                        The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end
                        of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
                        indication exists, the Group and the Company make an estimate of the asset’s recoverable
                        amount.

                        For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
                        assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
                        inflows of non-financial assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”).

66
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.9 Impairment of assets (Continued)
                (b) Impairment of non-financial assets (Continued)
                        The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
                        and its value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
                        their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
                        time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. In determining the fair value less
                        costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can
                        be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
                        Where the carrying amount of an asset exceed its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of
                        asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
                        Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
                        An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously
                        recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. An impairment
                        loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets
                        recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. Reversal of impairment loss
                        is restricted by the asset’s carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
                        loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
        3.10 Share capital
                Ordinary Shares
                Ordinary shares are equity instruments. An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual
                interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are recorded at
                the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction costs. Dividends on ordinary
                shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
        3.11 Employee benefits
                (a) Short-term employee benefits
                        Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of wages, salaries, social security contributions,
                        annual bonuses, paid annual leave, sick leave and non-monetary benefits are recognised as an
                        expense in the financial year where the employees have rendered their services to the Group and
                        the Company.
                (b) Defined contribution plans
                        As required by law, the Group and the Company contribute to the Employees Provident Fund
                        (“EPF”), the national defined contribution plan. Such contributions are recognised as an expense
                        in the profit or loss in the period in which the employees rendered their services.

                                                                                                                                                     67
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.12 Provisions

                Provisions are recognised when the Group and the Company have a present obligation (legal or
                constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be
                required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.

                If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions that are determined based on the expected
                future cash flows to settle the obligation are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects current
                market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. When discounting
                is used, the increase in the provisions due to passage of time is recognised as finance costs.

                Provisions are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is
                no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation, the
                provision is reversed.

        3.13 Revenue and other income

                The Group and the Company recognise revenue that depict the transfer of promised goods or services
                to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group and the Company expect
                to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.

                The Group and the Company measure revenue at its transaction price, being the amount of consideration
                to which the Group and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised good
                or service to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties, adjusted for the effects
                of any variable consideration, constraining estimates of variable consideration, significant financing
                components, non-cash consideration and consideration payable to customer. If the transaction price
                includes variable consideration, the Group and the Company use the expected value method by
                estimating the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a range or possible consideration amounts, or
                the most likely outcome method, depending on which method the Group and the Company expect to
                better predict the amount of consideration to which it is entitled.

                Financing components

                The Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient for not to adjust the promised amount
                of consideration for the effects of a significant financing components if the Group and the Company
                expect that the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and
                payment by the customer will be one year or less.

                (a) Sale of manufactured goods

                        The Group manufactures and sells a range of biscuits and cakes products to local and foreign
                        customers. Revenue from sale of manufactured goods are recognised at a point in time when
                        control of the products has been transferred, being when the customers accepts the delivery of
                        goods.

                        Sales are made within a credit term of 7 to 90 days, therefore, no element of financing is deemed
                        present. A receivable is recognised when the customer accepts the delivery of the goods as the
                        consideration is unconditional other than the passage of time before the payment is due.

68
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.13 Revenue and other income (Continued)
                (a) Sale of manufactured goods (Continued)
                        Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the volume rebate and
                        returns where applicable.
                        The Group’s customary business practice is to allow a customer to return any defected and
                        expired products and receive a full refund.
                        A contract liability is recognised for expected volume rebates payable to customers and for
                        products expected to be returned from customers in relation to sales made until the end of the
                        reporting period.
                (b) Rental income
                        Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentive
                        granted is recognised as an integral part of the total rental income, over the term of the lease.
                (c) Interest income
                        Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
        3.14 Borrowing costs
                Borrowing costs are interests and other costs that the Group and the Company incur in connection with
                borrowing of funds.
                Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
                qualifying asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
                Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying
                assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their
                intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
                are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
                The Group and the Company begin capitalising borrowing costs when the Group and the Company have
                incurred the expenditures for the asset, incurred related borrowing costs and undertaken activities that
                are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
                Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
                expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

                                                                                                                                                     69
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.15 Income tax

                Income tax expense in profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax
                are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items
                recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.

                (a) Current tax

                        Current tax is the expected taxes payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the
                        financial year, using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of
                        the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.

                (b) Deferred tax

                        Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting
                        date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the statements
                        of financial position. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
                        differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences,
                        unused tax losses and unused tax credits, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
                        profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and
                        unused tax credits can be utilised.

                        Deferred tax is not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
                        assets and liabilities in a transaction which is not a business combination and that affects neither
                        the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

                        Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with
                        investments in subsidiaries and associate, except where the Group is able to control the
                        reversal timing of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences
                        will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary
                        differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent
                        that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits
                        of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

                        The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to
                        the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the
                        benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
                        reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
                        that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax assets to be utilised.

                        Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset
                        is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
                        substantively enacted at the reporting date.

                        Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
                        loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other
                        comprehensive income or directly in equity.

                        Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right
                        to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes
                        levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but
                        they intend to settle their income tax recoverable and income tax payable on a net basis or their
                        tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.

70
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

        3.15 Income tax (Continued)

                (c) Sales and services tax

                        Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of amount of sales and services tax except:

                        • where the sales and services tax incurred in a purchase of assets or services is not
                                recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales and services tax is
                                recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as
                                applicable; and

                        • receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales and services tax included.

                        The net amount of sales and services tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority
                        is included as part of receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.

        3.16 Earnings per share

                The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS
                is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
                weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares
                held.

                Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
                weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects
                of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

        3.17 Operating segments

                Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
                chief operating decision-maker. The Group Chief Executive Director, who is responsible for allocating
                resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief
                operating decision-maker that makes strategic decisions.

        3.18 Fair value measurements

                Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for lease transactions, is determined as the price that would
                be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
                participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
                or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market,
                in the most advantageous market.

                For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
                to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
                market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

                When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable
                market data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy
                based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
                Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group

                              and the Company can access at the measurement date.
                Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or

                              liability, either directly or indirectly.
                Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

                                                                                                                                                     71
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
        3.18 Fair value measurements (Continued)
                The Group and the Company recognise transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the
                date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
        3.19 Contingencies
                A contingent liability or asset is a possible obligation or asset that arises from past events and whose
                existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) not
                wholly within the control of the Group and of the Company.
                Contingent liability is also referred as a present obligation that arises from past events but is not
                recognised because:
                (a) it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
                        settle the obligation; or
                (b) the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
                Contingent liabilities and assets are not recognised in the statements of financial position.
        3.20 Contract liabilities
                Contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to customer for which the Group and the
                Company have received the consideration or have billed the customers.
                Under MFRS 15, revenue is accounted for as a variable consideration. The Group and the Company
                provide volume rebates to certain customers once the quantity of products purchased during the
                period exceeds a threshold specified in the contract. Therefore, rebate liabilities for the expected future
                rebates are recognised.
                The Group and the Company also provide expected future returns to customers for their purchases.
                Therefore, return liabilities for the expected future returns relating to right of return product from the
                customers are recognised.
                Revenue is adjusted for the value of the expected future rebates and corresponding goods expected to
                be returned.

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting
        estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
        contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
        revenue and expenses during the reporting period. It also requires directors to exercise their judgement in
        the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates and
        judgement are based on the directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may
        differ.

72
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONTINUED)

        The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity that have the most significant effect on the
        Group’s and the Company’s financial statements, or areas where assumptions and estimates that have a
        significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements
        within the next financial year are disclosed as follows:

        (a) Trade receivables

                The impairment provisions for trade receivables are based on assumptions about risk of default and
                expected loss rate. The Group and the Company use judgement in making these assumptions and
                selecting inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s and the Company’s past history
                and forward-looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.

                The Group and the Company use a provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (“ECL”) for trade
                receivables. The provision rates are depending on the number of days that a trade receivable is past
                due.

                The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
                rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience
                with forward-looking information. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
                updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.

                The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forward-looking estimates
                and expected credit losses is a significant estimate. The amount of expected credit losses is sensitive
                to changes in circumstances and forecast of economic conditions over the expected lives of trade
                receivables. The Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may
                also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future.

                The information about the impairment losses on the Group’s and the Company’s trade receivables are
                disclosed in Note 25(b).

        (b) Investment in subsidiaries

                The Company assesses impairment of the investment in subsidiaries whenever the events or changes
                in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries may not be
                recoverable i.e. the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries is more than the recoverable
                amount.

                Recoverable amount is measured at the higher of the fair value less costs to sell for the investment in
                subsidiaries and its value-in-use. The value-in-use is the net present value of the projected future cash
                flows derived from the subsidiaries discounted at an appropriate discount rate. The Company use its
                judgement to decide the discount rates applied in the recoverable amount calculation and assumptions
                supporting the underlying cash flow projections, including forecast growth rates, inflation rates and
                gross profit margin. Cash flows that are projected based on those inputs or assumptions may have a
                significant effect on the Company’s financial positions and results if the actual cash flows are less than
                the expected.

                The carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7.

                                                                                                                                                     73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 20215. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

74
			 Plant		 Furniture		 Capital

			                                                          and            Office           and           Motor          work-in-

Group                                      Properties # machinery equipment                  fittings      vehicles       progress         Total
                                                                                                                                             RM
2021		                                     RM                RM             RM               RM            RM             RM

Cost                                       12,896,171        38,201,961     3,639,404        769,450        998,557       6,899,945        63,405,488
At 1 January 2021                             398,368         1,085,329       138,432           2,152               –       279,459         1,903,740
Additions                                        (3,400)       (164,170)      (37,609)               –                        (1,350)        (384,529)
Disposals/Written off                           13,300                   –       3,082               –     (178,000)        (16,382)                   –  
Reclassification                                       –        101,062                –             –              –                –         101,062
Reclassification from right-of-use assets              –         (90,000)              –             –              –                –         (90,000)
Reclassification to right-of-use assets                                                                             –

At 31 December 2021                        13,304,439 39,134,182 3,743,309                   771,602       820,557 7,161,672 64,935,761

Accumulated depreciation							

 and impairment loss							

At 1 January 2021

Accumulated depreciation                   6,951,493 33,810,318 3,312,027                    655,547       920,418        –   45,649,803

Accumulated impairment loss                79,527            –              –                –             –              –                79,527

                                           7,031,020 33,810,318 3,312,027                    655,547       920,418        –                45,729,330

							                                                                                                                                     2,057,637
                                                                                                                                             (364,622)
Depreciation for the financial year        664,797 1,244,114                91,017           20,229        37,480         –
                                                                                                                                                29,476
Disposals/Written off                      (2,974) (149,658)                (33,990)         –   (178,000)                –                        (750)

Reclassification from right-of-use assets  –                 29,476         –                –             –              –  

Reclassification to right-of-use assets    –                 (750)          –                –             –              –  

 Accumulated depreciation                  7,613,316 34,933,500 3,369,054                    675,776       779,898        –    47,371,544
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                                         –             –  
                                           79,527            –              –                                             –                79,527

At 31 December 2021                        7,692,843 34,933,500 3,369,054                    675,776       779,898        – 47,451,071

Carrying amount							

At 31 December 2021                        5,611,596 4,200,682              374,255          95,826        40,659 7,161,672 17,484,690
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

			 Plant		 Furniture		 Capital

			                                                         and           Office          and          Motor        work-in-

Group                                     Properties # machinery equipment                fittings     vehicles     progress         Total
                                                                                                                                       RM
2020		                                    RM                RM            RM              RM           RM           RM

Cost                                      12,259,816        37,887,086    3,645,697       766,470      998,557        391,885        55,949,511
At 1 January 2020                            383,768           592,474       85,520          2,980             –    6,765,479         7,830,221
Additions                                             –       (409,743)     (91,813)              –            –                       (502,709)
Disposals/Written off                        252,587               3,679             –            –            –        (1,153)                  –  
Reclassification                                      –        128,465               –            –            –     (256,266)          128,465
Reclassification from right-of-use asset
                                                                                                                               –   

At 31 December 2020                       12,896,171 38,201,961 3,639,404                 769,450      998,557 6,899,945 63,405,488

Accumulated depreciation

 and impairment loss							

At 1 January 2020

 Accumulated depreciation                 6,329,771 32,953,134 3,313,035                  634,634      871,137      –   44,101,711

 Accumulated impairment loss              79,527            –             –               –            –            –                79,527
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021
                                          6,409,298 32,953,134 3,313,035                  634,634      871,137      – 44,181,238
                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Depreciation for the financial year       621,722           1,208,632      88,547         20,913       49,281       –   1,989,095
Disposals/Written off                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CONTINUED)–   (392,192)(89,555)–  –   
Reclassification from right-of-use asset          –                                              –            –     –   (481,747)
75                                                             40,744             –   
                                                                                                                    –                40,744

 Accumulated depreciation                 6,951,493 33,810,318 3,312,027                  655,547      920,418      –    45,649,803
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                                      –            –  
                                          79,527            –             –                                         –                79,527

At 31 December 2020                       7,031,020 33,810,318 3,312,027                  655,547      920,418      –   45,729,330

Carrying amount                           5,865,151 4,391,643             327,377         113,903      78,139 6,899,945 17,676,158
At 31 December 2020
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

    # Properties consist of:

    			 Freehold

    Group		                                       land  Buildings       Renovation              Total
                                                                RM                RM              RM
    2021			RM
                                                                                        12,896,171
    Cost                                 132,515        7,481,963       5,281,693          398,368
    At 1 January 2021                            –                 –      398,368             (3,400)
    Additions                                    –                                 –         13,300
    Disposals/Written off                        –          (3,400)         13,300
    Reclassification                                               –                    13,304,439

    At 31 December 2021                  132,515        7,478,563       5,693,361        6,951,493
                                                                                             79,527
    Accumulated depreciation				
                                                                                         7,031,020
     and impairment loss				                                                               664,797
                                                                                              (2,974)
    At 1 January 2021
                                                                                         7,613,316
     Accumulated depreciation                     –     4,596,926       2,354,567            79,527

     Accumulated impairment loss                  –     79,527          –                7,692,843

                                                  –     4,676,453       2,354,567        5,611,596

    				                                                                  508,528
                                                                                   –  
    Depreciation for the financial year           –     156,269

    Disposals/Written off                         –     (2,974)

     Accumulated depreciation                     –     4,750,221       2,863,095
     Accumulated impairment loss                                                   –
                                                  –     79,527

    At 31 December 2021                           –    4,829,748        2,863,095

    Carrying amount				

    At 31 December 2021                  132,515        2,648,815       2,830,266

    				

76
                                             > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

# Properties consist of:

			 Freehold

Group		                              land         Buildings        Renovation            Total
                                                          RM                 RM            RM
2020			RM
                                                                                 12,259,816
Cost                                 132,515      7,481,963        4,645,338        383,768
At 1 January 2020                            –               –       383,768        252,587
Additions                                    –               –       252,587
Reclassification                                                                 12,896,171

At 31 December 2020                  132,515      7,481,963        5,281,693      6,329,771
                                                                                      79,527
Accumulated depreciation
                                                                                  6,409,298
 and impairment loss				                                                            621,722

At 1 January 2020                                                                 6,951,493
                                                                                      79,527
 Accumulated depreciation            –            4,436,327        1,893,444
                                                                                  7,031,020
 Accumulated impairment loss         –            79,527           –   
                                                                                  5,865,151
                                     –            4,515,854        1,893,444
                                                                     461,123
				

Depreciation for the financial year  –            160,599

 Accumulated depreciation            –            4,596,926        2,354,567
 Accumulated impairment loss
                                     –            79,527           –   

At 31 December 2020                  –            4,676,453        2,354,567

Carrying amount                      132,515      2,805,510        2,927,126
At 31 December 2020

                                                                                 77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

78
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

			 Plant		 Furniture		 Capital

			                                                        and              Office           and           Motor          work-in-

Company                                  Properties # machinery equipment                    fittings      vehicles       progress        Total
                                                                                                                                            RM
2021		                                   RM                RM               RM               RM            RM             RM

Cost                                     11,483,834        35,271,923       3,119,654        714,096        699,379       6,788,205       58,077,091
At 1 January 2021                           398,368           938,928         111,774           2,150               –       205,374        1,656,594
Additions                                      (3,400)       (164,170)        (20,970)               –                        (1,350)       (367,890)
Disposals/Written off                         13,300                   –         3,082               –     (178,000)        (16,382)                  –   
Reclassification                                     –         (90,000)                –             –              –                –        (90,000)
Reclassification to right-of-use assets                                                                             –  

At 31 December 2021                      11,892,102 35,956,681 3,213,540                     716,246       521,379 6,975,847 59,275,795

Accumulated depreciation

 and impairment loss							

At 1 January 2021

 Accumulated depreciation                5,927,460 31,336,631 2,832,657                      602,023       621,240        –   41,320,011

 Accumulated impairment loss             79,527            –                –                –             –              –               79,527

                                         6,006,987 31,336,631 2,832,657                      602,023       621,240        –    41,399,538

Depreciation for the financial year      599,382           1,047,113         79,798          19,914          37,480       –    1,783,687
Disposals/Written off                      (2,974)          (149,658)       (17,351)                –      (178,000)
Reclassification to right-of-use assets          –                                                  –                     –    (347,983)
                                                                 (750)              –                               –
                                                                                                                          –               (750)

 Accumulated depreciation                6,523,868 32,233,336               2,895,104        621,937       480,720        –   42,754,965
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                           –             –             –  
                                         79,527            –                                                              –               79,527

At 31 December 2021                      6,603,395 32,233,336 2,895,104                      621,937       480,720        –    42,834,492

Carrying amount                          5,288,707 3,723,345                318,436          94,309        40,659 6,975,847 16,441,303
At 31 December 2021

							
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

			 Plant		 Furniture		 Capital

			                                                        and           Office          and           Motor        work-in-

Company                                   Properties # machinery equipment               fittings      vehicles     progress      Total
                                                                                                                                    RM
2020		                                    RM               RM            RM              RM            RM           RM

Cost                                      10,847,479       34,963,136    3,114,903       711,116       699,379        391,885     50,727,898
At 1 January 2020                            383,768          586,386       82,370          2,980              –    6,653,739      7,709,243
Additions                                             –      (409,743)     (77,619)              –             –                    (488,515)
Disposals/Written off                        252,587              3,679             –            –             –        (1,153)               –   
Reclassification                                      –       128,465               –            –             –     (256,266)       128,465
Reclassification from right-of-use asset
                                                                                                                               –

At 31 December 2020                       11,483,834 35,271,923 3,119,654                714,096       699,379 6,788,205 58,077,091

Accumulated depreciation                  5,375,008 30,689,421           2,834,802       581,427       571,959      –   40,052,617
 and impairment loss                                                                –            –             –  
At 1 January 2020                         79,527           –                                                        –             79,527
 Accumulated depreciation
 Accumulated impairment loss

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 20215,454,535 30,689,421 2,834,802581,427571,959–    40,132,144

                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTSDepreciation for the financial year552,452998,65873,28520,59649,281– 1,694,272
Disposals/Written off                             –        (392,192)     (75,430)               –             –  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)Reclassification from right-of-use asset–  ––  –   (467,622)
                                                             40,744              –
79                                                                                                                  –             40,744

 Accumulated depreciation                 5,927,460 31,336,631 2,832,657                 602,023       621,240      –    41,320,011
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                                     –             –  
                                          79,527           –             –                                          –             79,527

At 31 December 2020                       6,006,987 31,336,631 2,832,657                 602,023       621,240      –    41,399,538

Carrying amount                           5,476,847 3,935,292            286,997         112,073       78,139 6,788,205 16,677,553
At 31 December 2020
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

    # Properties consist of:

    			 Freehold

    Company		                                     land  Buildings       Renovation                 Total
                                                                RM                RM                 RM
    2021			RM
                                                                          4,766,309        11,483,834
    Cost                                 132,515        6,585,010           398,368           398,368
    At 1 January 2021                            –                 –                 –           (3,400)
    Additions                                    –                            13,300            13,300
    Disposals/Written off                        –          (3,400)
    Reclassification                                               –      5,177,977        11,892,102

    At 31 December 2021                  132,515        6,581,610         1,900,265         5,927,460
                                                                                     –          79,527
    Accumulated depreciation                      –     4,027,195
     and impairment loss                                                  1,900,265         6,006,987
    At 1 January 2021                             –     79,527              461,010           599,382
     Accumulated depreciation                                                        –           (2,974)
     Accumulated impairment loss
                                                                          2,361,275         6,523,868
                                                  –    4,106,722                     –          79,527

    Depreciation for the financial year           –     138,372           2,361,275         6,603,395

    Disposals/Written off                         –     (2,974)           2,816,702         5,288,707

    				

     Accumulated depreciation                     –    4,162,593

     Accumulated impairment loss                  –     79,527

    At 31 December 2021                           –    4,242,120

    Carrying amount                      132,515        2,339,490
    At 31 December 2021

80
                                             > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)

# Properties consist of:

			 Freehold

Company		                            land          Buildings        Renovation               Total
                                                           RM                 RM               RM
2020			RM
                                                                                     10,847,479
Cost                                 132,515       6,585,010        4,129,954           383,768
At 1 January 2020                            –                –       383,768           252,587
Additions                                    –                –       252,587
Reclassification                                                                     11,483,834

At 31 December 2020                  132,515       6,585,010        4,766,309         5,375,008
                                                                                          79,527
Accumulated depreciation
                                                                                      5,454,535
 and impairment loss				                                                                552,452

At 1 January 2020                                                                     5,927,460
                                                                                          79,527
 Accumulated depreciation            –    3,884,493                 1,490,515
                                                                                      6,006,987
 Accumulated impairment loss         –             79,527           –   
                                                                                      5,476,847
                                     –    3,964,020                 1,490,515
                                                                      409,750
				

Depreciation for the financial year  –             142,702

 Accumulated depreciation            –    4,027,195                 1,900,265
 Accumulated impairment loss                                                   –   
                                     –             79,527

At 31 December 2020                  –    4,106,722                 1,900,265

Carrying amount                      132,515       2,478,288        2,866,044
At 31 December 2020

                                                                                     81
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES

    6.1 Right-of-use assets

    The Group and the Company lease several assets and the information about leases of the Group and
    the Company as lessees are presented below:

    		                             Leasehold		                    Plant and         Office       Motor
    		
    Group		                        Land Building Warehouse Machinery Equipment Vehicles                 Total

                                   RM            RM         RM    RM                RM           RM     RM

    Carrying amount                1,108,357     421,022    –    1,370,970                 –     370,162 3,270,511
    At 1 January 2020                      –     603,716                            207,800             –    1,308,881
    Additions                                    (149,116)  –    497,365            (38,097)
    Depreciation                     (46,160)    (360,849)                                       (47,659) (448,652)
    Derecognition                          –                –   (167,620)                  –            –   (360,849)
    Reclassification to property,
     plant and equipment                                    –     –   

                                   –             –          –   (87,721)            –            –   (87,721)

    At 31 December 2020            1,062,197 514,773               –   1,612,994    169,703      322,503 3,682,170
    Additions                               -    33,615     469,565 245,000                –     267,642 1,015,822
    Depreciation                                            (52,174) (204,056)                   (63,271) (565,263)
    Reclassification from            (46,160) (158,042)                             (41,560)
     property, plant and
     equipment                     –             –          –    89,250             –            –   89,250
    Reclassification to
     property, plant and           –             –          –    (71,586)           –            –   (71,586)
     equipment

    At 31 December 2021            1,016,037 390,346 417,391 1,671,602 128,143 526,874 4,150,393

    Company                        730,828       421,022    –    1,042,470                 –     370,162 2,564,482
                                          –      603,716                            207,800             –     1,308,881
    Carrying amount                              (149,116)  – 497,365               (38,097)
    At 1 January 2020              (29,522)      (360,849)                                       (47,659) (396,606)
    Additions                             –                 –     (132,212)                –            –   (360,849)
    Depreciation
    Derecognition                                           –     –    
    Reclassification to property,
     plant and equipment           –             –          –     (87,721)          –            –     (87,721)

    At 31 December 2020            701,306 514,773                 –     1,319,902  169,703      322,503 3,028,187
    Additions                             -    33,615       469,565 245,000                -     267,642 1,015,822
    Depreciation                                            (52,174) (172,861)                   (63,271) (517,430)
    Reclassification from          (29,522) (158,042)                               (41,560)
     property, plant and
     equipment                     –             –          –    89,250             –            –    89,250

    At 31 December 2021            671,784 390,346 417,391 1,481,291                128,143 526,874 3,615,829

82
                                              > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                      NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                       (CONTINUED)

6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)

6.1 Right-of-use assets (Continued)

The Group and the Company lease land, buildings and warehouse for their office space, operation site
and staff accommodation. The leases for land, office space, operation site and staff accommodation
have remaining lease term between 1 to 76 years (2020: 1 to 77 years).

The Group and the Company also have lease for motor vehicles, plant and machinery and office
equipment with remaining lease term between 1 to 5 years (2020: 1 to 5 years).

6.2 Lease liabilities

                                                  Group                    Company

		2021                                                   2020  2021                 2020

		                                    RM                 RM    RM                   RM

Current                               486,022     453,024      440,261     379,089
Lease liabilities (secured)           296,485     137,525      296,485     137,525
Lease liabilities (unsecured)

                                      782,507     590,549      736,746     516,614

Non-current                           950,587     955,857      884,567     844,076
Lease liabilities (secured)           543,878     395,029      543,878     395,029
Lease liabilities (unsecured)

                                      1,494,465   1,350,886    1,428,445   1,239,105

Total lease liabilities               2,276,972   1,941,435    2,165,191   1,755,719

                                                  Group                    Company

		2021                                                   2020  2021                 2020

		                                    RM                 RM    RM                   RM

Minimum lease payments				

- Within one year                     910,825     703,126        858,901     618,645

- Later than one year but not later                              714,174     535,787

 than two years                       758,358     587,711        829,015     824,429

- Later than two years but not later                           2,402,090   1,978,861
                                                                (236,899)   (223,142)
   than five years                    854,789     894,388

Future interest charges               2,523,972   2,185,225
                                       (247,000)   (243,790)

Present value of minimum				

 lease payments                       2,276,972   1,941,435    2,165,191   1,755,719

                                                                                    83
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)

    6.2 Lease liabilities (Continued)

                                                      Group                                  Company

		2021                                                       2020                   2021              2020

		                                                RM         RM                     RM                RM

    Represented by:

    		

    Current

    - On demand and within one year       782,507     590,549                       736,746  516,614

    				                                              513,762
                                                      837,124
    Non-current

    - Later than one year but not later

     than two years                       677,299                    636,394                   468,001
                                                                     792,051                   771,104
    - Later than two years but not later                           1,428,445                 1,239,105
                                                                   2,165,191                 1,755,719
     than five years                      817,166

                                          1,494,465   1,350,886

                                          2,276,972   1,941,435

    Interest rates are fixed at the inception of the lease arrangement. The effective interest rate is ranging
    from 5.64% to 8.93% (2020: 5.64% to 8.93%).

    Set out below is the movements of lease liabilities during the financial year:

    					 Group                                                                              Company
    					RM                                                                                          RM

    At 1 January 2020                                              1,640,958                 1,371,954
                                                                                             1,235,678
    Additions                                                      1,235,678
                                                                                               106,826
    Interest expenses                                                               123,537   (360,849)

    Derecognition                                                  (360,849)                  (491,064)
                                                                                              (106,826)
    Lease payments				

    - Principal portion                                            (574,352)

    - Interest portion                                             (123,537)

    At 31 December 2020                                            1,941,435                 1,755,719
                                                                                               964,558
    Additions                                                                       964,558    129,059

    Interest expenses                                                               139,606   (555,086)
                                                                                              (129,059)
    Lease payments				

    - Principal portion                                            (629,021)

    - Interest portion                                             (139,606)

    At 31 December 2021                                            2,276,972                 2,165,191

84
                                             > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                     NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

7. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES

		Company

					2021                                                                          2020

					                                                                 RM           RM

			

Unquoted shares - at cost                                    12,764,671            12,764,671

Less: Accumulated impairment losses                          (5,827,669) (5,827,669)

                                                             6,937,002             6,937,002

Details of the subsidiaries which have principal place of business and are all incorporated in Malaysia are as
follows:

Name of Companies                    Effective ownership
		
		                                   interest/voting rights  Principal activities
		
                                     2021 2020

                                     %    %

Epro Industries Sdn. Bhd.            100  100                Property holding

Suria Merah Manufactory              100  100                Property holding
 (Segamat) Sdn. Bhd.

Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)      100  100                Biscuit manufacturer
 Sdn. Bhd.

Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd.          100  100                Trading

Hwa Tai Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.      100  100                Dormant

Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd.         90   90                 Trading

Hwa Tai Import Sdn. Bhd.             100  100                Dormant

Hwa Tai (Sarawak) Sdn. Bhd.          100  100                Dormant

Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd.       100  100                Trading

Hwa Tai Services Sdn. Bhd.           100  100                Dormant

Absolute Focus Sdn. Bhd.             100  100                Dormant

Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd.      100  100                Trading

Held through Acetai Corporation
 Sdn. Bhd.			

Anika Bebas Sdn. Bhd.                100  100                Dormant

Esprit Classic Sdn. Bhd.             100  100                Dormant

The financial information of the Company’s subsidiaries with non-controlling interest is not disclosed as the
non-controlling interest is not material.

                                                                                   85
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

8.		INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE

                                                          Group                         Company

		2021                                                           2020          2021              2020

		                                                RM             RM            RM                  RM

    Unquoted shares - at cost                 1,791,457    1,791,457       1,791,457       1,791,457
    Share of post acquisition losses         (1,791,457)  (1,791,457)                 –               –  

                                                  –                  –      1,791,457       1,791,457
                                                                           (1,791,457)     (1,791,457)
    Less: Accumulated impairment losses           –                  –  

    			                                           –                  –         –                       –

    Details of the associate which has principal place of business and is incorporated in the People’s Republic of
    China are as follows:

    Name of Company      Issued share             Effective ownership      Nature of the relationship
                             capital              interest/voting rights

                         Chinese Renminbi         2021           2020
                                 (RMB)              %              %

    Shan Dong Yingerle           10,500,000       48             48        Dealers, importers and

     Hwa Tai Food                                                          exporters of biscuit, cake and

     Industry Co. Ltd.*                                                    baby products. The activities

                                                                           contribute to the Group’s

                                                                           manufacturing segment.

		
        * Audited by auditor other than Messrs Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT.

    The impairment arose from prolonged decline in value of investment and significant financial difficulty in
    associate. Should there be evidence indicating that the performance of the associate is or will be, better than
    expected, the Group and the Company will expect a write-back of the impairments.

    The Group has not recognised its share of losses of Shan Dong Yingerle Hwa Tai Food Industry Co. Ltd.
    amounting to RM526,630/- (2020: RM132,567/-) because the Group’s cumulative share of losses has
    exceeded its interest in that associate and the Group has no obligation in respect of these losses. The Group’s
    cumulative accumulated losses not recognised were RM659,197/- (31.12.2020: RM132,567/-).

9. INVENTORIES

                                                          Group                         Company

		2021                                                           2020          2021              2020

		                                                RM             RM            RM                  RM

    At lower of cost and NRV				

    Raw materials                            2,917,919    2,597,845        2,397,257       2,003,276
                                                                                           2,810,960
    Packing materials                        4,033,359    3,197,656        3,281,037
                                                                                             243,651
    Work-in-progress                         452,011      329,359          323,463         2,440,565

    Finished goods                           3,379,412    2,948,173        2,846,841         114,591

    Consumables and spare parts              219,420      185,253          124,070

                                             11,002,121   9,258,286        8,972,668       7,613,043

86
                                              > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                      NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                       (CONTINUED)

9. INVENTORIES (CONTINUED)

The cost of inventories of the Group and of the Company recognised as an expense in cost of sales during
the financial year was RM54,480,590/- (2020: RM52,539,849/-) and RM47,495,195/- (2020: RM45,743,643/-)
respectively. In addition, the expense and income recognised in profit or loss included the following:

                                                        Group                          Company

		2021                                                         2020      2021                   2020

		                                    RM                       RM        RM                     RM

Inventories written down               37,817           125,917           11,120         125,917
Inventories written back              (13,212)                  –        (13,212)                –

10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                        Group                          Company

		2021                                                         2020      2021                   2020

                                Note  RM                       RM        RM                     RM

Current					

Trade receivables               (a)

Trade receivables                     23,521,787        27,646,884       18,652,763      22,450,672

Amount owing by subsidiaries          –                        –    15,878,516           16,057,689

Less: Impairment loss           (b)   23,521,787        27,646,884        34,531,279      38,508,361

- Trade receivables                   (3,326,344)       (3,162,418)       (3,039,903)     (2,612,332)
                                                  –                 –    (15,872,924)    (15,960,812)
- Amount owing by subsidiaries

                                      (3,326,344) (3,162,418) (18,912,827) (18,573,144)

Trade receivables, net                20,195,443        24,484,466       15,618,452      19,935,217

Other receivables					

Other receivables                     113,748           125,510          55,773          65,674

Amount owing by subsidiaries (c)      –                        –         288,312         673,065

Refundable deposits             (d)   1,102,320         500,335          1,096,090       494,275

Less: Impairment loss           (b)   1,216,068         625,845          1,440,175       1,233,014

- Other receivables                     (57,789)        (57,789)                    –               –  
                                                 –              –         (142,019)       (126,027)
- Amount owing by subsidiaries
                                        (57,789)        (57,789)          (142,019)       (126,027)
		

Other receivables, net                1,158,279         568,056          1,298,156       1,106,987

Total trade and other                 21,353,722        25,052,522       16,916,608      21,042,204
 receivables

                                                                                                87
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONTINUED)

    (a) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 7 to 90 days (2020: 7 to 90 days)
            terms. They are recognised on their original invoice amount which represents their fair values on initial
            recognition.

    (b) The movement in allowance of impairment loss of trade and other receivables are as follows:

                                                        Group                                   Company

		2021                                                         2020                 2021                 2020

		                                                RM           RM                   RM                   RM

         Trade receivables					

         At 1 January                 3,162,418         5,415,092                   18,573,144  20,865,127

         Charge for impairment loss   462,962           918,856                     427,571     875,852

         Reversal of impairment loss  (121,901) (1,270,575)                         (87,888) (1,266,880)

         Written off                  (177,135) (1,900,955)                         –    (1,900,955)

         At 31 December               3,326,344         3,162,418                   18,912,827  18,573,144

         Other receivables					

         At 1 January                 57,789                   57,789               126,027     126,027

         Charge for impairment loss               –            –                    15,992               –  

         At 31 December               57,789                   57,789               142,019     126,027

         Trade receivables that are individually determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
         debtors that have defaulted on payments. These receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit
         enhancements.

         Included in trade receivables of the Group are amounts totalling of RM10,083,005/- (2020:
         RM11,888,415/-) due from 2 (2020: 2) of its significant receivables.

    (c) Amount owing by subsidiaries is unsecured, non-interest bearing, repayable on demand and is
            expected to be settled in cash, except for amount owing by one of the subsidiaries represent advance
            to subsidiary which is unsecured, subject to interest at rates of 7.42% (2020: 7.42% to 8.18%) per
            annum and is expected to be settled in cash.

    (d) Included in refundable deposits of the Group and of the Company amount totalling of RM934,132/-
            (2020: RM385,680/-) are placed for purchase of machineries as mentioned in Note 23.

    The currencies exposure profile of trade and other receivables are as follows:

		                                                                                  Group and Company

    					2021                                                                                            2020

    					                                                                           RM                   RM

    USD                                                                             1,135,030   1,495,425

88
                                                  > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                          NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                           (CONTINUED)

11. CASH, BANK BALANCES AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS

                                                       Group                            Company

		2021                                                        2020               2021            2020

		                                        RM                  RM                 RM              RM

Cash on hand and at banks                 5,001,495    1,473,057     4,621,472          1,024,130
Deposits with licensed banks              7,000,000    5,500,000     7,000,000          5,500,000

Cash and bank balances                    12,001,495    6,973,057    11,621,472          6,524,130
Less: Bank overdrafts                     (4,278,798)  (2,477,249)   (4,278,798)        (2,477,249)

Cash and cash equivalents                 7,722,697    4,495,808     7,342,674          4,046,881

The foreign currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances are as follows:

		                                                                               Group and Company

					2021                                                                                        2020

					                                                                            RM              RM

USD                                                                              2,938           2,973
Others                                                                           8,825           8,825

The deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company earn interest at rates ranging from 1.65%
to 1.90% (2020: 1.72% to 2.95%) per annum. Deposits of the Group and of the Company have maturity period
ranging from 7 to 66 days (2020: 14 to 66 days).

12. SHARE CAPITAL

		                                                            Group and Company

                                          Number of ordinary shares                     Amounts

			2021                                                       2020               2021            2020

			Unit                                                       Unit               RM              RM

				

Issued and fully paid up (no par value):

At 1 January/31 December                  74,833,270   74,833,270    29,933,308         29,933,308

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled
to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to the
Company’s residual assets.

                                                                                                 89
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES

                                                            Group                            Company

		2021                                                             2020         2021                  2020

                                    Note          RM               RM           RM                    RM

    Current

    Trade payables                  (a)

    Third parties                         11,784,050        11,750,059           7,024,102       7,227,406
                                                      –                 –          393,705         360,355
    Amount owing to subsidiaries
                                                                                 7,417,807       7,587,761
    Other payables                        11,784,050        11,750,059
    Accrued operating expenses                                                   2,871,280       3,016,035
    Other payables                         3,446,632         3,723,886           1,481,399         420,214
    GST payable                            1,655,910           480,410                              112,873
    Sales tax payable                                           114,478              34,410        486,291
    Refundable deposits                        34,410          564,377             399,663          126,908
    Amount owing to subsidiaries (b)         491,619           126,908                             140,420
                                                                        –            63,908
                                               63,908                              564,670       4,302,741
                                                      –   
                                                                                 5,415,330      11,890,502
                                          5,692,479         5,010,059
                                                                                12,833,137
    Total trade and other payables        17,476,529        16,760,118

    (a) The trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally granted on 7 to 90 days (2020: 7 to 90
            days) terms.

    (b) The amount owing to subsidiaries are unsecured, non-interest bearing, repayable on demand and is
            expected to be settled in cash.

    The currencies exposure profile of trade and other payables is as follows:

		                                                                              Group and Company

    					2021                                                                                         2020

    					                                                                       RM                    RM

    USD                                                                         988,080         59,873

14. CONTRACT LIABILITIES

                                                            Group                            Company

		2021                                                             2020         2021                  2020

		                                                RM               RM           RM                    RM

    Rebate liabilities                    2,700,119         2,929,043           2,368,284       2,816,873
    Return liabilities                               –         15,433                      –       15,433

                                          2,700,119         2,944,476           2,368,284       2,832,306

90
                                          > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                   (CONTINUED)

15. LOANS AND BORROWINGS

		                                                                      Group and Company

					2021                                                                                    2020

					                                                                   RM                   RM

Current                                                                 18,567,000       15,783,294
Bankers’ acceptances (unsecured)                                         4,278,798        2,477,249
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)

                                                                        22,845,798       18,260,543

The maturities of the loans and borrowings are as follows:

		                                                                      Group and Company

					2021                                                                                    2020

					                                                                   RM                   RM

On demand and within one year                                           22,845,798       18,260,543

Bankers’ acceptances

The bankers’ acceptances of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group
and the Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.

The effective interest rates as at reporting date is ranging from 3.53% to 4.96% (2020: 4.09% to 6.33%) per
annum.

Bank overdrafts

The bank overdrafts of the Group and of the Company are granted on the undertaking that the Group and the
Company will not pledge or execute any charges on its assets.

The effective interest rates as at the reporting date range from 6.81% to 7.95% (2020: 6.81% to 7.95%) per
annum.

16. REVENUE

                                              Group                                 Company

		2021                                                      2020        2021                 2020

		                                RM                        RM          RM                   RM

Sales of trading goods            15,581,541                15,548,681              –                –   
Sales of manufactured goods       57,796,868                59,401,736  62,479,967       64,396,311

                                  73,378,409                74,950,417  62,479,967       64,396,311

Timing of revenue recognition:    73,378,409                74,950,417  62,479,967       64,396,311
At a point in time

                                                                                             91
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

17. COST OF SALES

        Cost of sales represents the production costs, direct material, labour costs and related overheads as well as
        the costs of inventories sold.

18. FINANCE COSTS

                                                      Group                   Company

		2021                                                       2020    2021              2020

		                                                RM         RM      RM                RM

    Interest expenses				

    - bank overdrafts    75,573                              68,246  75,573    68,246
                                                                              106,830
    - lease liabilities  139,606                      123,537        129,059  749,443

    - trade financing    766,994                      771,761        743,117

                         982,173                      963,544        947,749  924,519

92
                                               > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                       NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                        (CONTINUED)

19. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX

Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
in arriving at (loss)/profit before tax:

                                                      Group                        Company

		2021                                                       2020    2021                   2020

                                 Note  RM                    RM      RM                     RM

After charging:

Auditors’ remuneration:

- statutory audit fee

 - current year                           138,200        132,700         97,500        94,000

 - under provision in prior                   3,500          1,880        3,500               –

  years                                       5,000               –       5,000               –

- non statutory audit fee		                   5,000               –       5,000               –

 - current year                         2,057,637      1,989,095     1,783,687     1,694,272
                                          565,263        448,652       517,430       396,606
 - under provision in prior
                                        1,535,616      1,529,998     1,535,616     1,529,998
  years                                   125,000        130,000       125,000       130,000
                                          121,655        132,128       121,655       132,128
Depreciation of:                          185,449        170,173       185,449       170,173

- property, plant and equipment           126,700        117,650                –             –

- right-of-use assets                       74,712         75,112        38,760        38,760

Directors’ remunerations:        (a)      462,962        918,856       427,571       871,037

- salaries and allowances                          –              –             –       4,815

- fees                                             –              –     15,992                –
                                                   –              –             –      13,404
- bonus                                     37,817       125,917                     125,917
                                                                         11,120
- other emoluments                          20,511       144,648                     144,648
                                            13,186         12,581        20,329        12,581
- allowance for a director of                                            13,186
                                                   –       13,578                     13,578
 subsidiary                                                                     –
                                              5,395          3,343                      3,274
Expense relating to short-term                                            5,395
                                       10,818,195     11,233,239                   9,773,191
 lease and low value assets             1,107,038      1,062,880     9,360,746       908,089
                                        1,101,198      1,068,685       994,662       875,586
Impairment loss on:                       157,514        157,781       910,384       130,238
                                           649,006        710,246      131,683       628,862
- trade receivables                                                    522,494

- amount owing by subsidiaries

 (trade)

- amount owing by subsidiaries

 (non-trade)

- investment in subsidiaries

Inventories written down

Loss on foreign exchange:

- realised

- unrealised

Loss on disposal of property,

 plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment

 written off

Staff costs:

- salaries, wages and

 allowances

- bonus

- defined contribution plans

- SOCSO

- other staff related expenses

                                                                                            93
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

19. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)

    Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the following items have been charged/(credited)
    in arriving at (loss)/profit before tax (Continued):

                                                      Group                    Company

		2021                                                       2020   2021                2020

                                     Note         RM         RM     RM                  RM

    And crediting:                          35,437         1,458            –             –
    Bad debts recovered                            –           20           –           20
    Income from other investment                                    115,921      144,371
    Interest income                        106,386       75,555
    Income from subleasing                                           26,400        26,400
     right-of-use assets                      7,200        7,200     13,212               –
    Inventories written back                13,212               –
    Gain on disposal of property,                                    25,604               –
     plant and equipment                    25,604               –
    Reversal of impairment loss on:                                         –  1,261,513
    - trade receivables                    121,901    1,270,575
    - amount owing by subsidiaries                                   87,888         5,367
     (trade)                                       –             –          –             –
    - investment in associate                      –    341,653

    (a) Directors’ remuneration

    Details of Directors’ remuneration including the estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind are as
    follows:

		                                                                  Group and Company

    					2021                                                                           2020

    					                                                           RM                  RM

    Executive Director                                                 20,000     10,000
    Director’s fees                                                 1,415,616  1,409,998
    Salaries
    Bonus                                                             121,655    132,128
    Other emoluments                                                  185,449    170,173

                                                                    1,742,720  1,722,299

    Non-Executive Directors                                         105,000    120,000
    Directors’ fees                                                 120,000    120,000
    Allowances

                                                                    225,000    240,000

    Grand Total                                                       125,000    130,000
    Directors’ fees                                                 1,415,616  1,409,998
    Salaries
    Bonus                                                             121,655    132,128
    Allowances                                                        120,000    120,000
    Other emoluments                                                  185,449    170,173

                                                                    1,967,720  1,962,299

94
                                                 > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                         NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                          (CONTINUED)

19. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONTINUED)

(a) Directors’ remuneration (Continued)

The number of directors of the Company whose total remuneration fall within the respective ranges are
as follows:

		                                                         Number of Directors

                                                    2021                           2020

				                                                       Non- 		                          Non-

			                                      Executive        Executive  Executive           Executive

			                                      Director         Director   Director            Director

Ranges of remuneration:                   -                4                    -           4
RM0 - RM50,000
RM100,001 - RM150,000                     -                1                    -           1
RM1,000,001 - RM1,050,000
RM1,400,001 - RM1,450,000                 -                -                    -           -
RM1,700,001 - RM1,750,000
RM1,750,001 - RM1,800,000                 -                -                    -           -

                                          -                -                    -           -

                                          1                -                    1           -

			1                                                       5                    1           5

(b) Key management personnel

                                                    Group                          Company

		2021                                                     2020      2021                   2020

		                                        RM               RM        RM                     RM

Directors’ remunerations                 1,967,720        1,962,299  1,967,720           1,962,299
 (Note 19(a))
Other key management personnel           2,948,349        2,779,093  2,400,893           2,380,606
- salaries, bonus and other                360,633          341,536    296,122             303,865
 emoluments
- defined contribution plans                                         4,664,735           4,646,770

                                         5,276,702        5,082,928

                                                                                            95
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

20. INCOME TAX CREDIT/(EXPENSE)

    The major components of income tax credit/(expense) for the financial years ended 31 December 2021 and
    31 December 2020 are as follows:

                                                           Group                         Company

		2021                                                            2020      2021                  2020

		                                                RM              RM        RM                    RM

    Statements of comprehensive

     income				

    Current income tax:

    - Current income tax charge               (30,000)     (100,000)        (30,000)       (100,000)
                                                                                             84,819
    - Adjustment in respect of prior year     68,124              84,819    68,124

    Income tax credit/(expense)               38,124              (15,181)  38,124         (15,181)
     recognised in profit or loss

    Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory income tax rate of 24% (2020: 24%) of the
    estimated assessable profit for the financial year.

    The reconciliations from the tax amount at the statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and the Company’s
    tax credit/(expense) are as follows:

                                                           Group                         Company

		2021                                                            2020      2021                  2020

		                                                RM              RM        RM                    RM

    (Loss)/Profit before tax                  (1,950,637)  1,109,522        (2,856,530)    105,488

    Tax at Malaysian statutory income 				

     tax rate of 24%                          468,152      (266,285)         685,567        (25,317)
                                                                                     –              –  
    Share of results of associate                 –               82,486
                                                                                     –              –   
    Adjustments:                                                            (597,067)      (687,306)

    - Income not subject to tax               8,504               –         (118,500)               –   

    - Non-deductible expenses                 (676,366)    (864,957)                 –      612,623

    - Deferred tax not recognised on tax                                      68,124         84,819

     losses and temporary differences         (123,409)           (6,086)

    - Utilisation of previously unrecognised

     tax losses and temporary differences     293,119      954,842

    - Adjustment in respect of current

     income tax of prior years                68,124              84,819

    Income tax credit/(expense) for the       38,124              (15,181)  38,124         (15,181)
     financial year

96
                                          > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                   (CONTINUED)

20. INCOME TAX CREDIT/(EXPENSE) (CONTINUED)

Unrecognised deferred tax assets

Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:

                                                    Group                                   Company

		2021                                                     2020                  2021                2020

		                                RM                       RM                    RM                  RM

Deductible temporary differences     805,144         1,495,260   16,724,673                 17,221,538
Unabsorbed capital allowances      3,282,902         2,281,627    2,781,152                  1,790,538
Unabsorbed reinvestment
 allowances                                   –        563,286               –                          –  
Unused tax losses                 23,316,279        23,771,278               –                          –

                                  27,404,325        28,111,451   19,505,825                 19,012,076

Potential deferred tax assets 				

 not recognised at 24%            6,577,038         6,746,748                    4,681,398  4,562,898

Pursuant to Section 8 of the Finance Act 2021 (Act 833), the amendment to Section 44(5F) of Income Tax Act
1967, the time limit on the carried forward unused tax losses has been extended to maximum 10 consecutive
years. This amendment is deemed to have effect for the year of assessment 2019 and subsequent year of
assessment.

Any unused tax losses brought forward from year of assessment 2018 can be carried forward for another 10
consecutive years of assessment (i.e. from year of assessments 2019 to 2028).

The unused tax losses are available for offset against future taxable profits of the Group up to the following
financial years:

		Group

				31.12.2021 31.12.2020

				RM                                                                                               RM

2028                                                             23,316,279                 23,771,278

                                                                                                     97
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

21. (LOSS)/EARNING PER ORDINARY SHARE

    (a) Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share

    Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share are based on the (loss)/profit for the financial year attributable
    to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
    financial year, calculated as follows:

		Group

				2021                                                                      2020

    (Loss)/Profit attributable to owners of the Company (RM)     (1,918,666)  1,095,342

    Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (units)  74,833,270   74,833,270

    Basic (loss)/earning per ordinary share (sen)                (2.56)       1.46

    (b) Diluted (loss)/earning per ordinary share

            The Group has no potential dilutive of ordinary shares. As such, there is no dilution effect on the (loss)/
            earning per ordinary share of the Group.

22. RELATED PARTIES

        (a) Identity of related parties

                Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to
                control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operational
                decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control. Related
                parties may be individuals or other entities.

                Related parties of the Group include:

                (i) Subsidiaries;
                (ii) Associate;
                (iii) Entities in which directors have substantial financial interests; and
                (iv) Key management personnel of the Group and of the Company, comprise persons (including

                        directors) having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
                        activities directly or indirectly.

98
                                                    > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                            NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                             (CONTINUED)

22. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)

(b) Significant related party transactions

Significant related party transactions other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are as
follows:

                                                     Group                     Company

		2021                                                      2020    2021                2020

		                                          RM              RM      RM                  RM

Transactions with subsidiaries

Sales to subsidiaries				

- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd.            –               –    14,004,293    13,921,636
                                                                                      1,756
- Hwa Tai Wholesale Sdn. Bhd.               –               –       12,348
                                                                                  210,291
- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)                                                   25,756
                                                                                     (1,922)
 Sdn. Bhd.                                  –               –       309
                                                                                 (124,276)
- Acetai Corporation Sdn. Bhd.              –               –       –  
                                                                                    22,800
- Absolute Palmers Food Sdn. Bhd.           –               –       –
                                                                                    68,816
				

Commission fees paid to subsidiary				

- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)

 Sdn. Bhd.                                  –               –       (118,939)

				

Rental received from subsidiary				

- Hwa Tai Distribution Sdn. Bhd.            –               –       22,800

				

Interest received from subsidiary				

- Hwa Tai Food Industries (Sabah)

 Sdn. Bhd.                                  –               –       9,535

Transactions with directors,

 substantial shareholders and

 persons connected

Rental of premises paid to a

 company in which certain

 directors are the directors

 and substantial shareholders               144,000  136,000        144,000    136,000
                                                                                33,600
Rental of premises paid to a director				
                                                                                44,250
 and substantial shareholder                33,600          33,600  33,600

				

Transactions with a company in

 which a director has interest

Legal and consultancy fees paid to				

 a firm in which certain directors

 are partners                               5,900           44,250  5,800

(c) Compensation of key management personnel

        Key management personnel include personnel having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
        and controlling the activities of the entities, directly or indirectly, including any director of the Group and
        of the Company. The remuneration of the key management personnel are disclosed in Note 19(b).

                                                                                        99
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

23. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE COMMITMENTS

		                                                 Group and Company

     					2021                                                2020

     					                                         RM         RM

     Capital expenditure contracted				

      but not provided for:

      - purchase of property, plant and equipment  1,364,365  432,549

24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION

        The Group prepared the following segment in accordance with MFRS 8 Operating Segments based on
        the internal reports of the Group’s strategic business units which are regularly reviewed by the Group’s
        Chief Executive Director for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance
        assessment.

        The two reportable operating segments are as follows:

        Segments		 Products and services

        Manufacturing and Trading		 Manufacturing and trading of biscuits and cakes

        The inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and have been
        established on terms and conditions that are not materially different from those obtainable in transactions
        with unrelated parties.

        Segment profit

        Segment performance is used to measure performance as Group’s Chief Executive Director believes that
        such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
        that operate within these industries. Performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which is
        measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.

        Segment assets and liabilities

        The total of segment assets and liabilities is measured based on all assets and liabilities (excluding investment
        in associate) of a segment, as included in the internal reports that are reviewed by the Group’s Chief Executive
        Director.

100
                                                            > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                    NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     (CONTINUED)

24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

							 Adjustment

							and

			 Manufacturing Trading Others                                   Total elimination         Total

2021			 RM                                          RM         RM  RM             RM         RM

Revenue

Revenue from external customer          57,796,868 15,581,541  –    73,378,409    –   73,378,409

Inter - segment revenue          A      14,016,950  –          –    14,016,950 (14,016,950)  –  

                                        71,813,818 15,581,541  –   87,395,359 (14,016,950) 73,378,409

Results :							

Included in the measure of

 segment (loss)/proft are:

Depreciation of:

- property, plant and equipment         (2,034,630) (5,110) (17,897) (2,057,637)  –    (2,057,637)

- right-of-use assets                   (558,526)   –   (6,737) (565,263)         –    (565,263)

Expense relating to short-term

 lease and low value assets             (66,120) (31,392)      –    (97,512)      22,800 (74,712)

Gain on disposal of							

 property, plant and equipment          25,604      –          – 25,604           – 25,604

Impairment loss on:                                                –

- trade receivables                     (441,553) (21,409)     –   (462,962)      –   (462,962)

- amount owing by subsidiaries

 (non-trade)                            (15,992) (22,687)      – (38,679)         38,679     –  

Interest income                         115,921     –          –    115,921       (9,535) 106,386

Income from subleasing

 right-of-use assets                    30,000      –          –   30,000         (22,800)   7,200

Interest expenses                       (991,708)   –          –   (991,708)      9,535 (982,173)

Inventories written down                (37,817)    –          – (37,817)         –     (37,817)

Inventories written back                13,212      –          –    13,212        –    13,212

Loss on foreign exchange

- realised                              (20,511)    –          –    (20,511)      –     (20,511)

- unrealised                            (13,186)    –          –    (13,186)      –     (13,186)

Property, plant and equipment

 written off                            (5,395)     –          –   (5,395)        –    (5,395)

Reversal of impairment loss on:

- trade receivables                     121,901     –          –   121,901        –     121,901

- amount owing by subsidiaries

 (trade)                                87,888      –          –    87,888        (87,888)   –    

Segment (loss)/profit            B      (1,884,451) 77,412 (94,389) (1,901,428)   (49,209) (1,950,637)
Income tax credit
                                        38,124      –          –     38,124       –    38,124

(Loss)/Profit for the financial year B  (1,846,327) 77,412 (94,389) (1,863,304)   (49,209) (1,912,513)

Other information                C      69,601,821 2,727,380 523,622 72,852,823 (5,871,747) 66,981,076
Segment assets
Segment liabilities              D      42,750,506 21,920,574 304,293 64,975,373 (19,675,955) 45,299,418
Capital expenditure
                                        2,911,137   8,425      –   2,919,562      –   2,919,562

                                                                                             101
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

     							 Adjustment

     							and

     			 Manufacturing Trading Others                                    Total elimination       Total

     2020			 RM                                           RM        RM   RM            RM        RM

     Revenue

     Revenue from external customer          59,401,736 15,548,681  –    74,950,417    –    74,950,417

     Inter - segment revenue           A     14,157,517   –         –   14,157,517 (14,157,517)  –   

                                             73,559,253 15,548,681  –    89,107,934 (14,157,517) 74,950,417

     Results :							

     Included in the measure of

      segment profit/(loss) are:

     Depreciation of:

     - property,  plant and equipment        (1,961,694) (9,503) (17,898) (1,989,095)  –   (1,989,095)

     - right-of-use assets                   (441,914)    –         (6,738) (448,652)  –    (448,652)

     Expense relating to short-term

      lease and low value assets             (66,120) (31,792)      – (97,912)         22,800 (75,112)

     Impairment loss on:

     - trade receivables                     (871,436) (47,420)     –   (918,856)      –    (918,856)

     - amount owing by subsidiaries

      (trade)                                (4,815)      –         –   (4,815)        4,815     –  

     - amount owing by subsidiaries

      (non-trade)                            –    (6,531)           –    (6,531)       6,531     –   

     - investment in subsidiaries            (13,404)     –         –   (13,404)       13,404    –   

     Income from other investment            20           –         –    20            -         20

     Interest income                         144,371      –         –   144,371        (68,816) 75,555

     Income from subleasing							

      right-of-use assets                    30,000       –         –    30,000        (22,800)  7,200

     Interest expenses                       (1,032,360)  –         –   (1,032,360)    68,816 (963,544)

     Inventories written down                (125,917)    –         –   (125,917)      –   (125,917)

     Loss on disposal of property,

      plant and equipment                    (13,578)     –         – (13,578)         – (13,578)

     Loss on foreign exchange

     - realised                              (144,648)    –         –   (144,648)      – (144,648)

     - unrealised                            (12,581)     –         – (12,581)         –    (12,581)

     Property, plant and equipment

      written off                            (3,274)      (69)      –    (3,343)       –   (3,343)

     Reversal of impairment loss on:

     - trade receivables                     1,261,513    9,062     –   1,270,575      –   1,270,575

     - amount owing by subsidiaries

      (trade)                                5,367        –         –    5,367         (5,367)   –   

     - associate                             341,653      –         –    341,653       –    341,653

     Share of results of associate           (343,692)    –         – (343,692)        –    (343,692)

     Segment profit/(loss)             B     727,170      47,044 (97,188) 677,026      432,496 1,109,522
     Income tax expense
                                             (15,181)     –         –    (15,181)      –   (15,181)

     Profit/(Loss) for the financial year B  711,989      47,044 (97,188) 661,845      432,496 1,094,341

     Other information							

     Segment assets                    C     65,668,097 3,195,091 551,678 69,414,866 (5,914,123) 63,500,743

     Segment liabilities               D     36,970,455 22,465,697 237,960 59,674,112 (19,767,540) 39,906,572

     Capital expenditure                     9,139,102    –         –   9,139,102      – 9,139,102

102
                                                   > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONTINUED)

24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit or loss and assets are as follows:

A Inter-segment revenue

Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.

B Reconciliation of profit or loss

					2021                                                                                       2020
                                                                                                   RM
					                                                                                    RM
                                                                                             432,496
			

Elimination of inter-segment transactions                (49,209)

C Reconciliation of assets

					2021                                                                                           2020
                                                                                                      RM
					                                                                                    RM
                                                                                              6,937,002
			                                                                                          (2,175,515)
                                                                                              1,152,636
Investment in subsidiaries                               6,937,002
                                                                                              5,914,123
Investment in associate                                  (2,175,515)

Inter-segment assets                                     1,110,260

                                                         5,871,747

D Reconciliation of liabilities

					2021                                                                                           2020
                                                                                                       RM
					                                                                                    RM
                                                                                             19,767,540
			

Inter-segment liabilities                                19,675,955

Geographical information

Revenue from local and international sales amount to RM60,872,821/- (2020: RM62,856,079/-) and
RM12,505,588/- (2020: RM12,094,338/-) respectively.

Information about major customer

Revenue from 1 (2020: 1) major customer amount to RM28,469,285/- (2020: RM29,471,168/-) arising from
sales of manufactured biscuits.

                                                                                             103
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     (a) Categories of financial instruments

     The following table analyses the financial instruments in the statements of financial position by the
     classes of financial instruments to which they are assigned:

     					 Carrying                                              Amortised
     					 Amount                                                        cost
     					RM                                                              RM

     At 31 December 2021			                        21,353,722    21,353,722
     Financial assets			                           12,001,495    12,001,495
     Group			
     Trade and other receivables
     Cash, bank balances
      and short-term deposits

                                                   33,355,217    33,355,217

     Company 			                                   16,916,608    16,916,608
     Trade and other receivables                   11,621,472    11,621,472
     Cash, bank balances                           28,538,080    28,538,080
      and short-term deposits

     At 31 December 2021			                        (16,950,500)  (16,950,500)
     Financial liabilities			                       (2,276,972)   (2,276,972)
     Group			
     Trade and other payables^                     (22,845,798)  (22,845,798)
     Lease liabilities
     Loans and borrowings                          (42,073,270)  (42,073,270)

     Company 			                                   (12,399,064)  (12,399,064)
     Trade and other payables^                      (2,165,191)   (2,165,191)
     Lease liabilities
     Loans and borrowings                          (22,845,798)  (22,845,798)

                                                   (37,410,053)  (37,410,053)

     ^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable

104
        > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                 (CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)                        Amortised
                                                                     cost
        (a) Categories of financial instruments (Continued)           RM

                					 Carrying
                					 Amount
                					RM

At 31 December 2020			       25,052,522                      25,052,522
Financial assets			           6,973,057                       6,973,057
Group
Trade and other receivables  32,025,579                      32,025,579
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits

Company 			                  21,042,204                      21,042,204
Trade and other receivables   6,524,130                       6,524,130
Cash, bank balances
 and short-term deposits     27,566,334                      27,566,334

At 31 December 2020			       (16,081,263)                    (16,081,263)
Financial liabilities			      (1,941,435)                     (1,941,435)
Group			
Trade and other payables^    (18,260,543)                    (18,260,543)
Lease liabilities
Loans and borrowings         (36,283,241)                    (36,283,241)

Company 			                  (11,291,338)                    (11,291,338)
Trade and other payables^     (1,755,719)                     (1,755,719)
Lease liabilities
Loans and borrowings         (18,260,543)                    (18,260,543)

                             (31,307,600)                    (31,307,600)

        ^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable

(b) Financial risk management

        The Group’s and the Company’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks arising from their
        operations and the use of financial instruments. The key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity
        risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. The Group’s and the Company’s overall financial risk
        management objective is to optimise value for their shareholders. The Group and the Company do not
        trade in financial instruments.

                                                             105
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

     (b) Financial risk management (Continued)

     The Board of Directors reviews and agrees to policies and procedures for the management of these risks,
     which are executed by the Group’s senior management. The Audit Committee provides independent
     oversight to the effectiveness of the risk management process.

     (i) Credit risk

     Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group and the Company that may arise on outstanding
     financial instruments should a counterparty default on its obligations. The Group and the Company
     are exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade and other receivables) and
     from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial instruments. The Group
     and the Company have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is managed through
     the application of credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.

     Trade receivables

     As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade
     receivables is represented by the carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.

     The carrying amount of trade receivables are not secured by any collateral or supported by any
     other credit enhancements. In determining the recoverability of these receivables, the Group and
     the Company consider any change in the credit quality of the receivables from the date the credit
     was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group and the Company have adopted a policy
     of dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss
     from defaults.

     Credit risk concentration profile

     The information on credit risk concentration is disclosed in Note 10.

     Analysis on trade receivables

     The Group and the Company maintain an ageing analysis in respect of trade receivables as
     follow:

                                                      Group                       Company

		2021                                                       2020           2021           2020

		                                                RM         RM             RM             RM

     					

     Neither past due nor impaired 14,084,870         17,157,102   11,941,207     14,892,487

     Past due 1 - 30 days               2,449,731     2,616,356    1,335,688      1,336,644
     Past due 31 - 120 days             2,958,004     2,650,034    1,831,439      1,738,695
     Past due more than 120 days                      2,060,974                   1,967,391
                                          702,838                    510,118

     Impaired                           6,110,573     7,327,364     3,677,245      5,042,730
                                        3,326,344     3,162,418    18,912,827     18,573,144

                                        23,521,787    27,646,884   34,531,279     38,508,361

     					

106
                                                   > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b) Financial risk management (Continued)

(i) Credit risk (Continued)

Trade receivables (Continued)

The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide for impairment losses
prescribed by MFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected credit losses provision for
all trade receivables. To measure the impairment losses, trade receivables have been grouped
based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The impairment loss also
incorporate forward-looking information.

The movement of the allowance for impairment losses on receivables is as follows:

		                                 Trade receivables               Other receivables
		
		                           Lifetime 			                          Lifetime
		
		                           ECL           Credit     Total        ECL       Credit   Total

                             allowance impaired allowance          allowance impaired allowance

                               RM          RM         RM           RM        RM       RM

Group                        2,555,987 606,431 3,162,418           –    57,789        57,789
At 1 January 2021
Charges/(Reversal)            408,449 (67,388) 341,061             –         –        –  
 for the year                         –    (177,135) (177,135)
Written off                                                        –         –        –   

At 31 December 2021          2,964,436 361,908 3,326,344           –         57,789   57,789

At 1 January 2020            3,007,106 2,407,986 5,415,092         –         57,789   57,789
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year                 (451,119) 99,400 (351,719)           –         –        –   
Written off                           –   (1,900,955) (1,900,955)
                                                                   –         –        –   
At 31 December 2020          2,555,987 606,431 3,162,418
                                                                   –         57,789   57,789

Company 						

At 1 January 2021            2,504,112 16,069,032 18,573,144       –   126,027 126,027

Charges/(Reversal)

 for the year                408,449 (68,766) 339,683              –   15,992         15,992

At 31 December 2021          2,912,561 16,000,266 18,912,827       –   142,019 142,019

At 1 January 2020            2,985,017 17,880,110 20,865,127       –    126,027 126,027
(Reversal)/Charges
 for the year                 (480,905) 89,877 (391,028)           –         –        –   
Written off                           –   (1,900,955) (1,900,955)
                                                                   –         –        –   
At 31 December 2020          2,504,112 16,069,032 18,573,144
                                                                   –   126,027 126,027

Receivables that are individually determined to be credit impaired at the financial year end relate
to debtors who are in significant financial difficulties and have defaulted on payments.

                                                                                      107
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

        (b) Financial risk management (Continued)

                (i) Credit risk (Continued)

                        Other receivables and other financial assets

                        For other receivables and other financial assets (including cash and cash equivalents), the Group
                        and the Company minimise credit risk by dealing exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.
                        At the reporting date, the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk arising
                        from other receivables and other financial assets is represented by the carrying amount of each
                        class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position.

                        The Group and the Company consider the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset
                        and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout
                        each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the Group
                        and the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date
                        with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and
                        supportive forward-looking information.

                        Some intercompany loans between entities within the Group are repayable on demand. For loans
                        that are repayable on demand, impairment losses are assessed based on the assumption that
                        repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date. If the borrower does not have sufficient
                        highly liquid resources when the loan is demanded, the Group and the Company will consider the
                        expected manner of recovery and recovery period of the intercompany loan.

                        Refer to Note 3.9(a) for the Group’s and the Company’s other accounting policies for impairment
                        of financial assets.

                        Finance lease receivables

                        The credit risk associated with finance lease receivables is mitigated by way of obtaining security
                        over the leased equipment. At the reporting date, the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is
                        represented by the carrying amounts recognised in the statements of financial position.

                        As at the end of the reporting date, the Group and the Company did not recognise any loss
                        allowance for impairment for finance lease receivables.

                (ii) Liquidity risk

                        Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group or the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
                        financial obligations when they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity
                        risk arise primarily from mismatches of the maturities between financial assets and liabilities.
                        The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arise principally from trade and other
                        payables, loans and borrowings.

                        The Group’s and the Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding
                        and flexibility through the use of stand-by facilities. The Group and the Company maintain
                        sufficient liquidity and available funds to meet daily cash needs, while maintaining controls and
                        security over cash movements. The Group and the Company use a series of processes to obtain
                        maximum benefits from its flow of funds, such that they are efficiently managed to maximise
                        income from investment and minimise cost on borrowed funds. The Group’s and the Company’s
                        finance department also ensure that there are sufficient unutilised stand-by facilities, funding and
                        liquid assets available to meet both short-term and long-term funding requirements.

108
                                                   > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b) Financial risk management (Continued)

(ii) Liquidity risk (Continued)

Maturity analysis

The maturity analysis of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities by their relevant
maturity at the reporting date are based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations are
as follows:

		                                                   Contractual cash flows

			                                                  On demand		

		                                         Carrying  or within 1  Between 1

		                                         Amount    year and 5 years                     Total
                                                                                            RM
		                                         RM        RM           RM
                                                                                  16,950,500
Group                                                                              2,523,972

At 31 December 2021                                                               23,950,671

Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables^ 16,950,500                 16,950,500              –  
                                                        910,825   1,613,147
Lease liabilities                2,276,972
                                                     23,950,671              –  
Loans and borrowings             22,845,798

                                 42,073,270          41,811,996   1,613,147       43,425,143

At 31 December 2020

Financial liabilities				

Trade and other payables^        16,081,263          16,081,263   –    16,081,263

Lease liabilities                1,941,435           703,126      1,482,099       2,185,225

Loans and borrowings             18,260,543          19,265,674   –               19,265,674

                                 36,283,241          36,050,063   1,482,099       37,532,16

Company				

At 31 December 2021				

Financial liabilities				

Trade and other payables^        12,399,064          12,399,064   –    12,399,064

Lease liabilities                2,165,191           858,901      1,543,189       2,402,090

Loans and borrowings             22,845,798          23,950,671   –   23,950,671

                                 37,410,053          37,208,636   1,543,189       38,751,825

At 31 December 2020				

Financial liabilities				

Trade and other payables^        11,291,338          11,291,338   –   11,291,338

Lease liabilities                1,755,719           618,645      1,360,216       1,978,861

Loans and borrowings             18,260,543          19,265,674   –    19,265,674

                                 31,307,600          31,175,657   1,360,216       32,535,873

^ Excluded GST payable and sales tax payable

                                                                                  109
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

     (b) Financial risk management (Continued)

     (iii) Foreign currency risk

     Foreign currency risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of a financial
     instrument as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s and the Company’s
     exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s and
     the Company’s operating activities (when sales and purchases that are denominated in a foreign
     currency) and the Group’s net investments in foreign associate.

     Management has set up a policy that requires all companies within the Group and the Company
     to manage their treasury activities and exposures. The Group and the Company do not hedge
     their foreign currency exposures. In addition, the Group and the Company also takes advantage
     of any natural effects of its foreign currencies revenues and expenses by maintaining current
     accounts in foreign currencies.

     The Group’s and the Company’s unhedged financial assets and liabilities that are not denominated
     in their functional currencies are as follows:

     				                                         USD        EUR      Total

     				RM                                                  RM       RM

     Group 				

     At 31 December 2021				

     Trade receivables                            1,135,030  –        1,135,030
                                                                           3,223
     Cash and bank balances                       2,938      285
                                                                       (988,080)
     Other payables                               (988,080)  –

     Net exposure                                 149,888    285      150,173

     At 31 December 2020				

     Trade receivables                            1,495,425  –        1,495,425

     Cash and bank balances                       2,973      285      3,258

     Other payables                               (59,873)   –        (59,873)

     Net exposure                                 1,438,525  285      1,438,810

     Company				

     At 31 December 2021				

     Trade receivables                            1,135,030  –        1,135,030
                                                                           3,223
     Cash and bank balances                       2,938      285
                                                                       (862,780)
     Other payables                               (862,780)  –
                                                                        275,473
     Net exposure                                 275,188    285

     At 31 December 2020				

     Trade receivables                            1,495,425     –     1,495,425
                                                             285           3,258
     Cash and bank balances                       2,973
                                                                –       (59,873)
     Other payables                               (59,873)
                                                             285      1,438,810
     Net exposure                                 1,438,525

110
                                                   > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                           NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(b) Financial risk management (Continued)

(iii) Foreign currency risk (Continued)

Sensitivity analysis for foreign currency risk

The Group’s and the Company’s principal foreign currency exposure relates mainly to United
States Dollar (‘USD’) and European Union Dollar (‘EUR’).

The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the USD and
EUR, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
(loss)/profit for the financial year.

				                                                           Effect on
                                                           (loss)/profit
					
                                                                  for the
				                                            Change   financial year        Effect
                                                                           on equity
				                                            in rate               RM
                                                                                   RM
				                                            %

Group 					

At 31 December 2021					

- USD                                           + 5%     5,696             5,696

                                                - 5%     (5,696)           (5,696)

- EUR                                           + 5%     11                11
                                                - 5%
                                                         (11)              (11)

At 31 December 2020                             + 5%      54,664            54,664
- USD                                           - 5%     (54,664)          (54,664)

- EUR                                           + 5%     11                11
                                                - 5%
                                                         (11)              (11)

Company					

At 31 December 2021					

- USD                                           + 5%     10,457            10,457

                                                - 5%     (10,457)          (10,457)

- EUR                                           + 5%     11                11
                                                - 5%
                                                         (11)              (11)

At 31 December 2020                             + 5%      54,664            54,664
- USD                                           - 5%     (54,664)          (54,664)

- EUR                                           + 5%     11                11
                                                - 5%
                                                         (11)              (11)

                                                                           111
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

     (b) Financial risk management (Continued)

     (iv) Interest rate risk

     Interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s and of
     the Company’s financial instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s
     and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from their long-term loans and
     borrowings with floating interest rates. The Group’s and the Company’s policy to manage their
     interest rate risk is to hedge all material floating rate borrowings using interest rate swaps.

     Sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk

     The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest
     rates, with all other variables held constant on the Group’s and the Company’s total equity and
     (loss)/profit for the financial year.

     				                                                        Effect on
                                                             (loss)/profit
     					
                                                                    for the
     				                                         Change   financial year        Effect
                                                                             on equity
     				                                         in rate               RM
                                                                                     RM
     				                                         %

     Group and Company					

     At 31 December 2021                          +100     173,628           173,628

                                                  -100     (173,628)         (173,628)

     					

     At 31 December 2020                          +100     138,780           138,780

                                                  -100     (138,780)         (138,780)

     (c) Fair value measurement

             The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and payables and short-
             term borrowings are reasonably approximate to their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature
             of these financial instruments.

             There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year (31.12.2020: no
             transfer in either directions).

112
                                                > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                        NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         (CONTINUED)

25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)

(c) Fair value measurement (Continued)

The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s and the Company’s
financial instruments:

			                                              Fair value of financial instruments

			                                              not carried at fair value

		                      Carrying        |-------------------- Fair value --------------------|

		                      amount          Level 1  Level 2  Level 3                     Total

		                      RM              RM       RM       RM                          RM

Group					

At 31 December 2021					

Financial liabilities					

Borrowings

- Bankers’ acceptances  18,567,000      –        –   18,567,000 18,567,000

- Bank overdrafts       4,278,798       –        –   4,278,798 4,278,798

Lease liabilities       2,276,972       –        –   2,276,972 2,276,972

                        25,122,770      –        –   25,122,770 25,122,770

At 31 December 2020					

Financial liabilities					

Borrowings

- Bankers’ acceptances  15,783,294      –        –   15,783,294 15,783,294

- Bank overdrafts       2,477,249       –        –    2,477,249 2,477,249

Lease liabilities       1,941,435       –        –    1,941,435 1,941,435

                        20,201,978      –        –   20,201,978 20,201,978

Company					

At 31 December 2021					

Financial liabilities					

Borrowings

- Bankers’ acceptances  18,567,000      –        –    18,567,000 18,567,000

- Bank overdrafts       4,278,798       –        –    4,278,798 4,278,798

Lease liabilities       2,165,191       –        – 2,165,191 2,165,191

                        25,010,989      –        –   25,010,989 25,010,989

At 31 December 2020					

Financial liabilities					

Borrowings

- Bankers’ acceptances  15,783,294      –        –   15,783,294 15,783,294

- Bank overdrafts       2,477,249       –        –    2,477,249 2,477,249

Lease liabilities       1,755,719       –        –   1,755,719 1,755,719

                        20,016,262      –        –   20,016,262 20,016,262

                                                                                      113
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(CONTINUED)

26. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

     The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that they maintain
     a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratio in order to support their business and maximise shareholder
     value. The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and make adjustments to it, in light of
     changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may
     adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes
     were made in the objectives, policies and processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2021 and
     31 December 2020.

     The Group and the Company monitor capital using gearing ratio. The gearing ratio is calculated as total debts
     divided by total equity. The gearing ratio at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020 are as follows:

                                                      Group                    Company

		2021                                                       2020  2021                 2020

                               Note               RM         RM    RM                   RM

     					

     Trade and other payables  13    17,476,529       16,760,118   12,833,137  11,890,502

     Loans and borrowings      15    22,845,798       18,260,543   22,845,798  18,260,543

     Lease liabilities         6     2,276,972        1,941,435    2,165,191   1,755,719

     Total debts                     42,599,299       36,962,096   37,844,126  31,906,764

     Shareholders’ equity            21,669,143       23,587,809   25,071,518  27,889,924

     Gearing ratio		197%                                     157%  151%                 114%

27. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF
       THE FINANCIAL YEAR

        Covid-19 pandemic

        On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic in
        recognition of its rapid spread across the globe. Many countries including the Malaysian Government imposed
        the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic
        also resulted in travel restriction, lockdown and other precautionary measures imposed in various countries.
        The emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic since early 2020 has brought significant economic uncertainties
        in Malaysia and markets in which the Group and the Company operate.

        The Group and the Company have performed assessments on the overall impact of the situation on the
        Group’s and the Company’s operations and financial implications, including the recoverability of the carrying
        amount of assets and subsequent measurement of assets and liabilities, and concluded that there was no
        material adverse effect on the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.

        Given the fluidity of the situation, the Group and the Company are unable to reasonably estimate the complete
        financial impacts of COVID-19 pandemic for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 to be disclosed
        in the financial statements as impact assessment of the COVID-19 pandemic is a continuing process. The
        Group and the Company will continuously monitor any material changes to future economic conditions that
        will affect the Group and the Company.

114
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                               STATEMENT BY
                                                                     DIRECTORS

                                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE and DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P., being two of the directors of Hwa Tai
Industries Berhad, do hereby state that in the opinion of the directors, the accompanying financial statements set
out on pages 40 to 114 are drawn up in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and
fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2021 and of their financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors.

SOO THIEN MING @ SOO THIEN SEE
Director

DATUK SOO CHUNG YEE J.P.
Director

Kuala Lumpur
Date: 29 March 2022

                                                                    STATUTORY
                                                                 DECLARATION

                                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, LEE KIM HONG, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Hwa Tai Industries
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the accompanying financial
statements set out on pages 40 to 114 are correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

LEE KIM HONG
MIA Membership No:11927

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 29 March 2022.

Before me,

HADINUR MOHD SYARIF (W761)
Commissioner for Oaths

                                                                                                                                                   115
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Hwa Tai Industries Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 December 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as
set out on pages 40 to 114.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.  

116
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                                  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                  TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

Key Audit Matters (Continued)

Group and Company

Trade receivables (Note 4(a) and 10 to the financial statements)

We focused on this area because the Group and the Company made significant judgements over assumptions
about risk of default and expected loss rate. In making these assumptions, the Group and the Company selected
inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s and Company’s past history as well as forward-looking
estimation at the end of the reporting period.

Our response:

Our audit procedures included, among others:

• understanding the design and implementation of controls associated with monitoring of outstanding
        receivables and impairment calculations;

• developing understanding of significant credit exposures which were significantly overdue or deemed to be
        in default through analysis of ageing reports and other collection or legal reports prepared by the Group and
        the Company;

• obtaining confirmation of balances from selected receivables;
• checking subsequent receipts and considering level of activity with the customer and the Group and the

        Company explanation on the recoverability of debtors with significant past due balances; and
• assessing the reasonableness and calculation of expected credit losses as at the end of the reporting period.

Company

Investment in subsidiaries (Note 4(b) and 7 to the financial statements)

The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication of impairment on its investment in
subsidiaries. The recoverable amount of investment in subsidiaries will be determined based on the higher of value-
in-use or fair value less costs to sell once there is indication of impairment.

The assessment of indication of impairment and the determination of recoverable amount both require significant
judgement and estimates. In particular, the Company’s judgement and estimate are required in determining value-
in-use which includes assumptions and inputs supporting the underlying cash flow projections used which includes
discount rate applied, future sales, gross profit margin and operating expenses.

Our response:

Our audit procedures focus on evaluating the cash flow projections and the Company’s forecasting procedures
which included, among others:

• comparing the actual results with previous budget to assess the performance of the business, reliability of
        the forecasting process;

• comparing the Company’s assumptions to our assessments in relation to key assumptions to assess their
        reasonableness and achievability of the projections;

• testing the mathematical accuracy of the impairment assessment; and
• analysing the sensitivity of key assumptions by assessing the impacts of these key assumptions and inputs

        that are expected to be most sensitive to the recoverable amount.

                                                                                                                                                   117
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors of the Company are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

118
                                                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                                  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

                  TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
                                                                                                                      (CONTINUED)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued)

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
        Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
        obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
        detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
        may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

• obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
        appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
        Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.

• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
        and related disclosures made by the directors.

• conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
        on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
        may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
        conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
        related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
        inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
        of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease
        to continue as a going concern.

• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
        Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
        represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

• obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
        activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
        for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
        opinion.

We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

                                                                                                                                                   119
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONTINUED)

Other Matters
This report is made solely to the member of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the contents of this report.

Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT            Ng Jou Yin
201906000600 (LLP0019411-LCA) & AF 0117  No. 03460/11/2023 J
Chartered Accountants                    Chartered Accountant

Kuala Lumpur

Date: 29 March 2022

120
                                                                  > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                                                  ANALYSIS OF

                                                                            SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                                                   AS AT 31 MARCH 2022

Class of securities                      : Ordinary shares

Total amount of shares issued as fully paid : 74,833,270

Voting rights                            : Registered shareholders are entitled to one vote per

                                         ordinary share held at all general meetings.

SIZE OF SHAREHOLDINGS

Range of                                          No. of              % of   No. of                    % of
Shareholdings                            Shareholders     Shareholders      Shares        Shareholdings

Less than 100                                               132    3.59            2,620          0.01
100 - 1,000                                                 852   23.20        656,783            0.88
1,001 - 10,000                                            2,052   55.87      9,849,250           13.16
10,001 - 100,000                                            589   16.04     16,391,600           21.90
100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares                                     16,983,450           22.69
5% and above of issued shares                                46    1.25     30,949,567           41.36
                                                               2   0.05

Total                                                     3,673   100.00    74,833,270           100.00

THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS                                                 No. of               % of

Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members                             Shares Shareholdings

1. Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See                                           21,246,092           28.39
2. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                        9,635,975           12.88

        (A/C Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See)                                3,164,800            4.23
3. Teh Leong Kok
4. Lanjut Bestari Sdn Bhd                                                   1,434,750            1.92
5. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Soo Chung Yee)
6. Mohd Nasri Bin Abdul Rahim                                               1,315,500            1.76
7. Yam Lai Mun
8. Norazman Bin Ahmad                                                       1,230,000            1.64
9. Tan Leok Kwee
10. Syed Alwi Bin Syed Abbas Al-Habshee                                     1,218,000            1.63
11. Ng Ah Poh
12. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd                                     900,000              1.20

        (A/C Rakuten Trade Sdn Bhd for Norhaslina Binti Mohd Hanafi)        700,000              0.94
13. Zhao, Xiaodan
14. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Pui Wee Kuan)                  400,000              0.53
15. Lee Sau Kwang
16. Kennedy Vijayaraj A/L V Tanikoddy                                       334,100              0.45
17. Thong Foo Ching @ Thong Chuan Ching
18. Sia Ean Son                                                             319,700              0.43
19. Yeo Eng Chong @ Yeo Yong Chong
20. Chung Shan Hui                                                          302,000              0.40

                                                                            272,500              0.36

                                                                            250,000              0.33

                                                                            246,000              0.33

                                                                            220,800              0.29

                                                                            214,300              0.29

                                                                            206,800              0.28

                                                                            200,000              0.27

                                                                                                 121
> HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 31 MARCH 2022
(CONTINUED)

THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS (CONTINUED)                               No. of      % of

Name of Shareholders as per Register of Members                       Shares Shareholdings

21. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Sett Ee-Rian)      199,300     0.27
22. Saw Ah Kee
23. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Razana Binti Amran)     196,400     0.26
24. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Lee Nyek)
25. Teo Meng How                                                      174,800     0.23
26. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (A/C Sii Toh Ping)
27. Lim Mooi Tean                                                     173,000     0.23
28. Ahmad Kamarulzaman Bin Ahmad Badaruddin
29. Yap Mun Huat                                                      170,000     0.23
30. Chin Nyek Yun
                                                                      155,000     0.21
Total
                                                                      154,000     0.21

                                                                      153,400     0.20

                                                                      151,000     0.20

                                                                      150,000     0.20

                                                                      45,488,217  60.79

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS

According to the Register of Substantial Shareholders required to be kept under Section 144 of the Companies Act,
2016, the following are the substantial shareholders of the Company:

Name of                  Direct		                    Indirect		       Total

Substantial Shareholder  Interest                 %  Interest      %  Interest    %

                          (A)		                      (B)		 (A) + (B)

Soo Thien Ming @         30,949,567   41.36          –             – 30,949,567   41.36

   Soo Thien See

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

According to the registers required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the directors’ interest
in the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows:-

Name of                  Direct		                    Indirect		       Total
Director
                         Interest                 %  Interest      %  Interest    %

                          (A)		                      (B)		 (A) + (B)

Soo Thien Ming @         30,949,567   41.36          –             – 30,949,567   41.36

 Soo Thien See

Datuk Soo Chung Yee J.P.   1,315,500    1.76         –             – 1,315,500    1.76

Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See is deemed to have an interest in the equity holdings held by the Company in its
subsidiaries by virtue of his interest in the ordinary shares of the Company.

Other than as disclosed above, none of the other directors hold any share in the Company or its related companies.

122
                                                         > HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD : Annual Report 2021

                                                                                                 LIST OF

                                                                               GROUP PROPERTIES

                                                                                        AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2021

Location                  Land       Build       Tenure  Description             Date of    Date of  Estimated     Net
                           Area     up Area                                    Acquisition  Expiry     Age of     Book
                          (Sq.ft.)  (Sq.ft.)                                                (Year)    Building    Value
                                                                                   (A)/               (Years)   (RM’000)
                                                                               Revaluation
                                                                                (R) (Year)

1 Lot No. PTD 1098 &      87,120 56,150 Leasehold Factory land & 1983 (R) 2037                       44         3,391

& PTD 1099 at Mukim                                      Industrial buildings

Linau, Tongkang Pecah                                    (Own Occupation)

Industrial Estate,

District of Batu Pahat,

Johor Darul Takzim

2 Lot No. PTD 1731 at     43,560 23,745 Leasehold Factory land & 1985 (R) 2039                       39         145

Mukim Linau, Tongkang                                    Industrial buildings

Pecah Industrial Estate,                                 (Own Occupation)

District of Batu Pahat,

Johor Darul Takzim

3 Lot No. PTD 1171 at     43,560 19,670 Leasehold Factory land & 1978 (A) 2038                       42         280

Mukim Linau, Tongkang                                    Industrial buildings

Pecah Industrial Estate,                                 (Own Occupation)

District of Batu Pahat,

Johor Darul Takzim

4 Lot No. PTD 881 at      21,780 6,600 Leasehold Factory land & 1991 (A) 2035                        42         185

Mukim Linau, Tongkang                                    Industrial buildings

Pecah Industrial Estate,                                 (Own Occupation)

District of Batu Pahat,

Johor Darul Takzim

5 Lot No. PTD 1007 at     21,775 15,923 Leasehold Factory land & 2011 (A) 2036                       45         642

Mukim Linau, Tongkang                                    Industrial buildings

Pecah Industrial Estate,                                 (Own Occupation)

District of Batu Pahat,

Johor Darul Takzim

6 Lot No. PTD 7028 & 7029 1,540 1,540 Freehold           2 units single        1992 (A)     –        29         133

at Mukim Linau,           (per unit) (per unit)          storey terrace

District of Batu Pahat,                                  houses (Own

Johor Darul Takzim                                       Occupation)

7 Lot No. PTD 80369       7,476 1,592 Leasehold 1 unit 2 storey 2006 (A) 2097                        23         312

1 Jalan Impian Ria 6,                                    corner house

Taman Impian Jaya,                                       (Vacant)

Skudai,

Johor Darul Takzim

8 Lot No. PTD 40 & 41 Lok 121,908 49,237 Leasehold Factory land & 1989 (A) 2042                      29         1,387

Kawi Light Industrial                                    Industrial buildings

Estate, District of                                      (Own Occupation)

Kota Kinabalu,

Sabah

                                                                                                                123
(This page has been intentionally left blank)
                                                            Company No.: 19688-V (New Reg. No.: 197401002656)

   FORM OF PROXY

   I / We,.....................................................................................................................................................................................

   of............................................................................................................................................................................................

   being a member of HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD, hereby appoint..............................................................................

   of............................................................................................................................................................................................

   or failing him / her................................................................................................................................................................

   of............................................................................................................................................................................................
   or failing him / her the Chairman of the Meeting, as my / our proxy, to vote for me / us and on my / our behalf at the
   Forty-Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 9 June 2022 and at any adjournment thereof
   in the manner indicated below in respect of the following Resolutions:-

   Resolution Resolutions relating to:                                                                         For  Against

   Ordinary      Payment of Directors’ fees

   Resolution 1

   Ordinary      Payment of allowance to Non-Executive Chairman

   Resolution 2

   Ordinary      Re-election of Director, Soo Thien Ming @ Soo Thien See

   Resolution 3

   Ordinary      Appointment of Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng PLT as Auditors and their

   Resolution 4 remuneration

   Ordinary      Ordinary Resolution – Authority to allot and issue shares in general

   Resolution 5 pursuant to Sections 75 & 76 of the Companies Act, 2016

   Special       Special Resolution – Proposed Amendments to the Company’s

   Resolution Constitution

   Please indicate with (X) how you wish your vote to be cast.

   No. of Shares Held

   Date:. ................................................       Signature:...............................................................

   NOTES:

   (1) A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint at least 1 proxy to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy
          need not be a member of the Company.

   (2) Where a member appoints 2 or more proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be
          represented by each proxy.

   (3) Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least 1
          proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of such securities account.

   (4) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor
          is a corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.

   (5) The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 12, Jalan Jorak, Kawasan Perindustrian
          Tongkang Pecah, 83010 Batu Pahat, Johor Darul Takzim, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting or
          any adjournment thereof.

   ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES – COVID-19 OUTBREAK SAFETY MEASURES

   (1) All attendees to the Meeting including proxies are required to adhere to the Covid-19 outbreak safety measures as stated in the administrative
          notes in the Notice of Meeting.

   (2) To ensure physical distancing and to reduce the number of crowd at the Meeting, there will be no refreshment served nor distribution of door
          gifts/goody-bags to all attendees of the Meeting.

   (3) As the COVID-19 outbreak is an ever evolving situation, the venue, date and mode of the Meeting may be changed according to the circumstances
          then and any such changes will be publicly announced through Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

✄
Please fold this flap for sealing

Please fold here                                                                 Postage

                                                                THE SECRETARY

                                         HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD

                                                             NO. 12 JALAN JORAK
                                           KAWASAN PERINDUSTRIAN TONGKANG PECAH

                                                              83010 BATU PAHAT
                                                            JOHOR DARUL TAKZIM

                                                                     MALAYSIA

Please fold here
