CONTENTS

02                                42                            58

Notice of Annual General Meeting  Statement on Risk Management  Independent Auditors’ Report
                                  and Internal Control
08                                                              62
                                  44
Administrative Guide                                            Statements of Comprehensive
                                  Additional Compliance         Income
12                                Information
                                                                63
Corporate Information             45
                                                                Statements of Financial Position
13                                Management Discussion and
                                  Analysis                      65
Profile of Directors
                                  50                            Statements of Changes in Equity
15
                                  Analysis of Shareholdings     67
Profile of Key Senior
Management                        51                            Statements of Cash Flows

17                                Thirty Largest Shareholders   70

Corporate Governance Overview     52                            Notes to the Financial
Statement                                                       Statements
                                  Corporate Structure
32                                                              130
                                  53
Sustainability Statement                                        Properties
                                  Directors’ Report
37                                                              Form of Proxy
                                  57
Audit Committee Report
                                  Statement by Directors
41
                                  57
Statement of Directors’
Responsibility for preparing the  Statutory Declaration
Financial Statements
                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  2                                            Annual Report 2021

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad will be
held on a fully virtual basis hosted on Securities Services e-Portal at https://sshsb.net.my/ at Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur on Monday, 29 November 2021 at
10:00 a.m. for the following purposes:-

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.		To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021         (Please refer to the
        together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.                               Notes No. 8)

2.		To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors              (Resolution 1)
        amounting to RM270,750 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending
        30 June 2022 and thereafter.

3.		To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM100,000 from 30            (Resolution 2)
        November 2021 until the next AGM of the Company.

4.		To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of
        the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:-

(a) Encik Adnan bin Ahmad; and                                                                    (Resolution 3)
(b) Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam                                                                     (Resolution 4)

5. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until           (Resolution 5)
        the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following Ordinary
Resolutions:-

6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1                                                                          (Resolution 6)
        - AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and
are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to issue and allot shares in the capital of
the Company from time to time at such price and upon such terms and conditions, for
such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in their
absolute discretion deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares issued
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being;

AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the
listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa Securities; AND
FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company.”
Annual Report 2021  3  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                       NOTICE OF
                                            ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2                                                                             (Resolution 7)
        -	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDER MANDATE FOR
                RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING
                NATURE

        “THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
        approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to
        enter into and to give effect to the category of the recurrent related party transactions
        of a revenue or trading nature from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in
        Section 2.5 of the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 29 October 2021, provided
        that such transactions are:-

        (i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;

        (ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;

        (iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms which
                are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to
                the public; and

        (iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,

        (the “Mandate”);

        AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
        continue to be in force until:-

        (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
                following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which time it will lapse,
                unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed;

        (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
                date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall not
                extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the
                Act); or

        (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
                Company in a general meeting;

        whichever is the earlier;

        AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such acts
        and things (including executing all such documents as may be required), as they may
        consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  4                                                        Annual Report 2021

NOTICE OF                                                                                                   (Resolution 8)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

(Cont’d)

8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
        -	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE
                ITS OWN SHARES

        “THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
        Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements
        and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations and guidelines for the time being
        in force and the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities,
        approval be and is hereby given to the Company to purchase such number of ordinary
        shares as may be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time
        through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
        fit, necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal of
        Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-

        (a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by the
                Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per centum (10%) of
                the total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on Bursa Securities
                as at the point of purchase; and

        (b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing
                its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits of the Company based
                on the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest unaudited financial
                statements (where applicable) available at the time of the purchase.

        THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
        continue to be in force until:-

        (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
                following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at which time it will lapse,
                unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed,
                either unconditionally or subject to conditions;

        (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
                date is required by law to be held; or

        (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
                Company in a general meeting;

        whichever occurs first;

        AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own ordinary
        shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the ordinary shares
        purchased in their absolute discretion in the following manners:-

        (a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or

        (b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution as dividend to the
                shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa Securities and/or transfer under
                an employees’ share scheme (if any) and/or transfer as purchase consideration;

        (c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or
Annual Report 2021  5  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                       NOTICE OF
                                            ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

        in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders made pursuant
        to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any other relevant authority for
        the time being in force.

        AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts, deeds
        and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the
        Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority with
        full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or amendments
        as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all
        such acts and things as they may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the
        Company.”

9.		To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been given.

By Order of the Board of Directors

CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689/ SSM PC NO.: 201908002648)
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
Company Secretaries

Dated: 29 October 2021

Explanatory Notes to Special Business:

1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016

        The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Sixth AGM of the Company
        held on 24 November 2020 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.

        The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot shares
        pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a
        general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%)
        of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being (hereinafter referred to as the “10% General
        Mandate”).

        The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities, including but not
        limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment projects, working capital and/or
        acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons at any time as the Directors may deem fit,
        without incurring any further cost to convene a separate general meeting to approve such authority. This authority,
        unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the
        Company.

2.	Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue
        or Trading Nature

        The proposed Resolution 7 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the
        recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day
        operations, subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms
        which are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not to the
        detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company.

        Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 29 October 2021 for more information.
                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  6  Annual Report 2021

NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

(Cont’d)

Explanatory Notes to Special Business: (cont’d)

3.	Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares

        The proposed Resolution 8 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%)
        of the total number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Malaysia
        Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

        Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 29 October 2021 for more information.

Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Seventh AGM (“Meeting”):

1. As part of the initiatives to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Meeting will be conducted on a fully virtual basis by way
        of live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities to be provided by
        SS E Solutions Sdn. Bhd. via Securities Services e-Portal’s platform at https://sshsb.net.my/. Please read carefully
        and follow the procedures provided in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely
        via the RPV facilities.

2. Members, proxies and/or corporate representatives will not be allowed to be physically present during the Meeting.

        With the RPV facilities, members, proxies and/or corporate representatives are to remotely participate (including to
        pose questions to the Chairman, Board of Directors or Management) and vote at the Meeting.

        As guided by the Securities Commission Malaysia’s Guidance Note and Frequently Asked Questions on the Conduct
        of General Meetings for Listed Issuers as revised, the right to speak is not limited to verbal communication only
        but includes other modes of expression. Therefore, all members, proxies and/or corporate representatives shall
        communicate with the broadcast venue of the Meeting via real time submission of typed texts through a text box
        within Securities Services e-Portal’s platform during the live streaming of the Meeting as the primary mode of
        communication. In the event of any technical glitch in this primary mode of communication, members, proxies or
        corporate representatives may email their questions to eservices@sshsb.com.my during the Meeting. The Chairman
        and Board of Directors shall endeavour to respond to all questions and/or remarks submitted by members and proxies
        during the Meeting.

3. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate, speak and vote at the meeting, the
        Company shall be requesting the Record of Depositors as at 19 November 2021. Only Members whose names
        appear on the Record of Depositors as at 19 November 2021 shall be entitled to participate, speak and vote at the
        Meeting of the Company.

4. A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint more than one proxy to attend
        and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints two or more proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he
        specifies the proportions of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.

5. Where a member of the Company is an Authorised Nominee, it may appoint at least one proxy in respect of each
        Securities Account it holds with ordinary shares standing in credit of the said Securities Account. Where a member of
        the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
        owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt
        Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.

6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hands of the appointer or of his attorney duly
        authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation under its common seal, or the hand of its officer or attorney
        duly authorised.
Annual Report 2021  7  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                       NOTICE OF
                                            ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Seventh AGM (“Meeting”): (cont’d)

7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or
        a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited not less than 48 hours before the time
        for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof through either one of the following avenues:

(i) In Hardcopy Form of Proxy     (a) To be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Securities
(ii) By Electronic Form of Proxy          Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan
                                          Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights,
                                          50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan; or

                                  (b) To be submitted via fax at +603 2094 9940 or +603 2095 0292
                                          or emailed to info@sshsb.com.my; or

                                  (c) To be submitted electronically via Securities Services e-Portal
                                          at https://sshsb.net.my/. Please refer to the Administrative
                                          Guide available for download at http://www.rexmalaysia.com/
                                          for further details.

Should you wish to personally participate at the Meeting remotely, please register electronically via Securities Services
e-Portal’s platform at https://sshsb.net.my/ by the registration cut-off date and time. Please refer to the Administrative
Guide for further details that available for download at http://www.rexmalaysia.com/.

8. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a
        formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial
        Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  8   Annual Report 2021

ADMINISTRATIVE
GUIDE

       SECURITIES SERVICES e-PORTAL

WHAT IS Securities Services e-Portal?

Securities Services e-Portal is an online platform that will allow both individual shareholders and body corporate
shareholders through their appointed representatives, to -
• Submit proxy form electronically – paperless submission
• Register for remote participation and voting at meetings
• Participate in meetings remotely via live streaming  
• Vote online remotely on resolution(s) tabled at meetings
(referred to as “e-Services”).

The usage of the e-Portal is dependent on the engagement of the relevant e-Services by Rex Industry Berhad and is by
no means a guarantee of availability of use, unless we are so engaged to provide. All users are to read, agree and abide
to all the Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy as required throughout the e-Portal.

Please note that the e-Portal is best viewed on the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari.

REQUIRE ASSISTANCE?
Please contact Mr. Wong Piang Yoong (DID: +603 2084 9168) or Ms. Lee Pei Yeng (DID: +603 2084 9169) or Ms. Evangeline
Yeoh (DID: +603 2084 9007) or our general line (DID: +603 2084 9000) to request for e-Services Assistance during our
office hours on Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. and from 1:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Alternatively, you may
email us at eservices@sshsb.com.my.

                                                                BEFORE THE MEETING

(A)  Sign up for a user account at Securities Services e-Portal
                   Only if you are not an existing registered user

    (B)  Register for Remote Participation             OR              (C)  Submit e-Proxy Form
Where you wish to participate remotely at the meeting       Where you wish to appoint proxy(ies) to participate

                                                                 remotely on your behalf (you may also submit the
                                                                                   hard copy Proxy Form)

ON THE DAY OF THE MEETING

(D)  Join the Live Stream Meeting                      AND  (E) Vote Online Remotely during
                   (eLive)                                         the Meeting (eVoting)

© 2021 SS E Solutions Sdn. Bhd. 202001010461 (1366781-T). All rights reserved.
Annual Report 2021  9  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                  GUIDE

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

                                              BEFORE THE MEETING

                    (A)  Sign up for a user account at Securities Services e-Portal

Step 1  Visit https://sshsb.net.my/                        •  We require 1 working day to process all user sign-
Step 2                                                        ups. If you do not have a user account with the
Step 3  Sign up for a user account                            e-Portal, you will need to sign up for a user account
                                                              by the deadlines stipulated below.
Step 4  Wait for our notification email that will be sent     Your registered email address is your User ID.

        within one (1) working day

        Verify your user account within seven (7) days •

        of the notification email and log in

 To register for the meeting under (B) below or to submit e-Proxy Form under (C) below, please sign up for a
user account by 25 NOVEMBER 2021. Failing which you may only be able to submit the hard copy proxy form.

                    This is a ONE-TIME sign up only. If you already have a user account,
                                       please proceed to either (B) or (C) below.

                       (B)  Register for Remote Participation at the Meeting

 Log in to https://sshsb.net.my/ with your registered email and password
 Look for Rex Industry Berhad under Company Name and 27th AGM on 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m. –

        Registration for Remote Participation under Corporate Exercise / Event and click “>” to register for remote
        participation at the meeting.

Step 1  Check if you are attending as –
Step 2   Individual shareholder
         Corporate or authorised representative of a body corporate

                For body corporates, the appointed corporate / authorised representative has to upload the evidence
                of authority (e.g. Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative, Power of Attorney, letter
                of authority or other documents proving authority). All documents that are not in English or Bahasa
                Malaysia have to be accompanied by a certified translation in English in 1 file. The original evidence
                of authority and translation thereof, if required, have to be submitted at the office of Share Registrar,
                Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar
                Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan for verification before the
                registration closing date and time above.
        Submit your registration.

• All shareholders must register for remote participation at the meeting and are highly encouraged to register as
        early as possible and before the eLive access date and time [see (D) below] in order to ensure timely access to
        the meeting. Access shall be granted only to eligible shareholders in accordance with the General Meeting Record
        of Depositors as at 19 November 2021.

• A copy of your e-Registration for remote participation can be accessed via My Records (refer to the left navigation
        panel).

• Your registration will apply to all the CDS account(s) of each individual shareholder / body corporate shareholder
        that you represent. If you are both an individual shareholder and representative of body corporate(s), you need
        to register as an individual and also as a representative for each body corporate.

• As the meeting will be conducted on a fully virtual basis, we highly encourage all shareholders to remotely
        participate and vote at the meeting, failing which, please appoint the Chairman of the meeting as proxy or your
        own proxy(ies) to represent you.

                    © 2021 SS E Solutions Sdn. Bhd. 202001010461 (1366781-T). All rights reserved.
                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  10                 Annual Report 2021

ADMINISTRATIVE
GUIDE

(Cont’d)

                BEFORE THE MEETING (cont’d)

                               (C)  Submit e-Proxy Form

        Meeting Date and Time                   Proxy Form Submission Closing Date and Time

        Monday, 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m.  Saturday, 27 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m.

 Log in to https://sshsb.net.my/ with your registered email and password
 Look for Rex Industry Berhad under Company Name and 27th AGM on 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m. –

        Submission of Proxy Form under Corporate Exercise / Event and click “>” to submit your proxy forms online
        for the meeting by the submission closing date and time above.

Step 1  Check if you are submitting the proxy form as –
         Individual shareholder
Step 2   Corporate or authorised representative of a body corporate
Step 3
Step 4          For body corporates, the appointed corporate / authorised representative is to upload the evidence
                of authority (e.g. Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative, Power of Attorney, letter
                of authority or other documents proving authority). All documents that are not in English or Bahasa
                Malaysia have to be accompanied by a certified translation in English in 1 file. The original evidence
                of authority and translation thereof, if required, have to be submitted at the office of Share Registrar,
                Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar
                Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan for verification before the
                proxy form submission closing date and time above.
        Enter your CDS account number or the body corporate’s CDS account number. Then enter the information
        of your proxy(ies) and the proportion of your securities to be represented by your proxy(ies).
        You may appoint the Chairman of the meeting as your proxy where you are not able to participate
        remotely.
        Proceed to indicate how your votes are to be casted against each resolution.
        Review and confirm your proxy form details before submission.

• A copy of your submitted e-Proxy Form can be accessed via My Records (refer to the left navigation panel).
• You need to submit your e-Proxy Form for every CDS account(s) you have or represent.

                                                                        PROXIES

All appointed proxies need not register for remote participation under (B) above but if they are not registered
users of the e-Portal, they will need to sign up as users of the e-Portal under (A) above by 25 NOVEMBER 2021.
PLEASE NOTIFY YOUR PROXY(IES) ACCORDINGLY. Upon processing the proxy forms, we will grant the proxy
access to remote participation at the meeting to which he/she is appointed for instead of the shareholder, provided the
proxy must be a registered user of the e-Portal, failing which, the proxy will not be able to participate at the meeting as
the meeting will be conducted on a fully virtual basis.

        © 2021 SS E Solutions Sdn. Bhd. 202001010461 (1366781-T). All rights reserved.
Annual Report 2021  11  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                   GUIDE

                                                                                       (Cont’d)

                        ON THE DAY OF THE MEETING

                    Log in to https://sshsb.net.my/ with your registered email and password

                        (D)  Join the Live Stream Meeting (eLive)

Meeting Date and Time                        eLive Access Date and Time

Monday, 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m.       Monday, 29 November 2021 at 09:30 a.m.

 Look for Rex Industry Berhad under Company Name and 27th AGM on 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m. – Live
        Stream Meeting under Corporate Exercise / Event and click “>” to join the meeting.

• The access to the live stream meeting will open on the abovementioned date and time.
• If you have any questions to raise, you may use the text box to transmit your question. The Chairman / Board /

        Management / relevant adviser(s) will endeavour to broadcast your question and their answer during the meeting.
        Do take note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the stability of the internet connection at the
        location of the user.

                        (E)  Vote Online Remotely during the Meeting (eVoting)

Meeting Date and Time                        eVoting Access Date and Time

Monday, 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m.       Monday, 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m.

 If you are already accessing the Live Stream Meeting, click Proceed to Vote under the live stream player.
        OR

 If you are not accessing from the Live Stream Meeting and have just logged in to the e-Portal, look for Rex
        Industry Berhad under Company Name and 27th AGM on 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m. – Remote Voting
        under Corporate Exercise / Event and click “>” to remotely cast and submit the votes online for the resolutions
        tabled at the meeting.

Step 1 Cast your votes by clicking on the radio buttons against each resolution.
Step 2 Review your casted votes and confirm and submit the votes.

• The access to eVoting will open on the abovementioned date and time.
• Your votes casted will apply throughout all the CDS accounts you represent as an individual shareholder, corporate

        / authorised representative and proxy. Where you are attending as a proxy, and the shareholder who appointed
        you has indicated how the votes are to be casted, we will take the shareholder’s indicated votes in the proxy form.
• The access to eVoting will close as directed by the Chairman of the meeting.
• A copy of your submitted eVoting can be accessed via My Records (refer to the left navigation panel).

                    © 2021 SS E Solutions Sdn. Bhd. 202001010461 (1366781-T). All rights reserved.
                                              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         12          Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

                                BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                     Chee Cheng Chun

Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director                 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Darmendran Kunaretnam                                        Tai Keat Chai

Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director  Independent Non-Executive Director

                                                             Adnan bin Ahmad

                                                             Independent Non-Executive Director

AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT       AUDITORS                                  PRINCIPAL BANKERS
COMMITTEE
Tai Keat Chai                   Messrs. Moore Stephens                    United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Chairman                        Associates PLT                            Berhad
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  (LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)               [199301017069 (271809-K)]
Mohd Zain                       Chartered Accountants
Member                          Unit 3.3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,       Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Adnan bin Ahmad                 No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,                     [193401000023 (97141-X)]
Member                          Mutiara Damansara,
                                47810 Petaling Jaya,                      CIMB Bank Berhad
NOMINATION COMMITTEE            Selangor Darul Ehsan                      [197201001799 (13491-P)]
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  Telephone No. : +603-7728 1800
Mohd Zain                       Facsimile No. : +603-7728 9800            Public Bank Berhad
Chairman                                                                  [196501000672 (6463-H)]
Tai Keat Chai                   SHARE REGISTRAR
Member                                                                    SOLICITORS
                                Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE          [197701005827 (36869-T)]                  Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Mohd Zain                       Jalan Damanlela,                          REGISTERED OFFICE
Chairman                        Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Tai Keat Chai                   Damansara Heights,                        Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
Member                          50490 Kuala Lumpur,                       Minyak 5,
                                Wilayah Persekutuan                       14100 Simpang Ampat,
                                Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000            Seberang Perai Tengah,
                                Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940/           Penang, Malaysia
                                                                          Telephone No. : +604-508 8288
                                                         +603-2095 0292   Facsimile No. : +604-508 8566
                                Contact person : Mr. Wong Piang           Email Address : support@

                                                         Yoong                                     rexmalaysia.com

COMPANY SECRETARIES                                                       STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING

Chua Siew Chuan                                                           Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
(MAICSA 0777689)                                                          Malaysia Securities Berhad
SSM PC No.: 201908002648
                                                                          Stock Code  : 9946
Yeow Sze Min                                                              Stock Name  : REX
(MAICSA 7065735)                                                          Sector      : Consumer
SSM PC No.: 201908003120
                                                                                        Products &
                                                                                        Services
Annual Report 2021  13                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                        PROFILE OF
                                                                                        DIRECTORS

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd                        Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd       Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                         Zain, aged 78, a Malaysian, male,         had served as Chief Executive Officer
                                              was appointed to the Board of the         of Amanah International Finance
                            Independent       Company on 30 June 2014. He is the        Berhad, Amanah Chase Merchant
             Non-Executive Director,          Chairman of the Board, Nomination         Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank
                                              Committee and Remuneration                Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive
                                Chairman      Committee and a member of the Audit       Officer of Setron (Malaysia) Berhad,
                                              and Risk Management Committee of          Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat
                                              the Company.                              (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries Berhad,
                                                                                        Pan Malaysia Industries Berhad, Pan
                                              Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a           Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan
                                              graduate from the British Institute       Malaysia Capital Berhad, Chemical
                                              of Management and Institute of            Company of Malaysia Berhad and
                                              Marketing, United Kingdom, and holds      Kawan Food Berhad, Deputy Chairman
                                              a Masters in Business Administration      of Metrojaya Berhad and Director of
                                              from the University of Ohio in the        K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad and
                                              United States of America.                 AMMB Holdings Berhad.

                                              Upon Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s         Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s
                                              graduation in 1965, he joined University  directorships in other public companies
                                              Technology MARA (formerly known as        and listed issuers include Censof
                                              Institute of Technology MARA) as          Holdings Berhad and Brahim’s
                                              a lecturer and headed its school of       Holdings Berhad.
                                              business and then became its dean
                                              of academic. He was subsequently          Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had
                                              appointed as a Council Member/            attended four (4) out of five (5) Board
                                              Director, a position which he held until  Meetings held in the financial year
                                              October 2006.                             ended 30 June 2021.

Darmendran Kunaretnam                         Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, aged           Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went
                                              60, a Malaysian, male, was appointed      on to restructure and list Safeguards
                          Non-Independent     to the Board of the Company and as        Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”)
                         Executive Director,  the Group Managing Director on 3          on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
                Group Managing Director       March 2015. Currently, he does not sit    in June 1997. He was later appointed
                                              in any of the Board Committees of the     to the Board of Safeguards in August
                                              Company.                                  1997. In year 2007, he, together with
                                                                                        his partner, took Safeguards private.
                                              Mr. Darmendran graduated from
                                              Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia            Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was
                                              with a Business Degree majoring in        appointed as the Chief Financial
                                              Accounting. He is also a member of the    Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur
                                              Malaysian Institute of Accountants and    Berhad (“KSTB”) and its group of
                                              Malaysian Institute of Certified Public   subsidiaries prior to being appointed to
                                              Accountants. He spent ten (10) years      the Board of KSTB as a Non-Executive
                                              as Group Manager in the Audit Division    Director on 26 February 2009. He was
                                              of an international public accounting     redesignated as Executive Director on
                                              firm from 1985 to 1995.                   24 August 2009 and continues to hold
                                                                                        this position till present. Currently, the
                                              Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold           only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in
                                              Bridge Engineering & Construction         other public companies is KSTB, which
                                              Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the             was delisted on 27 December 2016.
                                              General Manager of the Finance
                                              and Corporate Planning Division in        Mr. Darmendran had attended all five
                                              1996 and successfully listed Gold         (5) Board Meetings held in the financial
                                              Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa        year ended 30 June 2021.
                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD        14  Annual Report 2021

PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS

(Cont’d)

        Chee Cheng Chun                Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, aged 36, a           Development Manager in Kejuruteraan
                                       Malaysian, male, was appointed to         Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”)
                   Non-Independent     the Board of the Company on 3 March       before he was appointed to the
           Non-Executive Director      2015. Currently, he does not sit in       Board of KSTB. Currently, the only
                                       any of the Board Committees of the        directorship of Mr. Chee in other
                                       Company.                                  public companies is KSTB, which was
                                                                                 delisted on 27 December 2016.
                                       Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial
                                       College, London with a Master             Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board
                                       of Engineering in Aeronautical            Meetings held in the financial year
                                       Engineering. He worked as Business        ended 30 June 2021.

           Tai Keat Chai               Mr. Tai Keat Chai, aged 67, a Malaysian,  before venturing into stock-broking,
                                       male, was appointed to the Board of       working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd.,
                      Independent      the Company on 6 March 2015. He           AA Anthony Securities Sdn. Bhd. and
        Non-Executive Director         is the Chairman of the Audit and          Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as
                                       Risk Management Committee and a           General Manager, Director and dealer’s
                                       member of the Nomination Committee        representative respectively.
                                       and Remuneration Committee of the
                                       Company.                                  Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in
                                                                                 other public companies and listed
                                       Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and     issuers include Marine & General
                                       a member of the Malaysian Institute       Berhad, Microlink Solutions Berhad
                                       of Accountants. He began his career       and HSS Engineers Berhad.
                                       with KPMG in London and moved on
                                       subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur.      Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board
                                       In 1981, he joined Alliance Investment    Meetings held in the financial year
                                       Bank Berhad for seven (7) years           ended 30 June 2021.

        Adnan Bin Ahmad                Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, aged 71, a         Regulatory and Premises. He was also
                                       Malaysian, male, was appointed to         the Chairman of Koperasi Pelaburan
                          Independent  the Board of the Company on 12 April      Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from
            Non-Executive Director     2018. He is a member of the Audit and     1997 until his retirement on 31 March
                                       Risk Management Committee of the          2014.
                                       Company.
                                                                                 Currently, the only directorship of
                                       Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma      Encik Adnan in other public companies
                                       in Industrial Relations. He started his   is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
                                       career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan      December 2016.
                                       & Mohamad in 1967. He then joined
                                       Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding         Encik Adnan had attended all five (5)
                                       various positions, including Head of      Board Meetings held in the financial
                                       Human Resource & Administration           year ended 30 June 2021.
                                       and Head of Administration and

Notes:

Save as disclosed above, none of the Directors has:-

1. any family relationship with any Director and/or Major Shareholder of the Company;
2. any conflict of interest with the Company; and
3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, or any public sanction or

        penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Annual Report 2021  15               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             Profile of
                                     Key Senior Management

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim                 Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, aged 61, a           and marketing positions in companies
                                     Malaysian, male, was appointed as the      such as Rothmans of Pall Mall Berhad,
            Chief Executive Officer  Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning     British American Tobacco Malaysia
  of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.       Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn.         Berhad and Carlsberg Breweries
                                     Bhd., subsidiaries of the Company, on      Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head
       and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.     1 June 2018.                               the sustainable development division
                                                                                at IRIS Corporation Berhad for five (5)
                                     Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma       years. He joined the Group in October
                                     in Management Programme. He has            2017 as the Marketing Director prior
                                     more than thirty (30) years of experience  to assuming his current role as Chief
                                     in the fast-moving consumer goods          Executive Officer.
                                     industry, primarily in the areas of
                                     sales and marketing and business           Dato’ Cheah does not hold any
                                     re-engineering. Prior to joining the       directorship in other public companies
                                     Group, he held various senior sales        or listed issuers.

 Chia Hup Tong                       Mr. Chia Hup Tong, aged 44, a              corporate functions. Prior to joining
                                     Malaysian, male, was appointed as the      the Group, he was a Group Accountant
 Chief Financial Officer             Chief Financial Officer of the Company     of Safeguards Corporation Sdn. Bhd.
of Rex Industry Berhad               on 23 September 2021.                      principally in charge of the overall group
                                                                                finance, accounts and compliance for
                                     Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of      six (6) years. He joined the Company on
                                     the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.    1 May 2021 as Finance Manager of P.T.
                                     He started his career in the audit         Rex Canning before he was promoted
                                     industry, where he gained audit and        as Chief Financial Officer.
                                     accounting experience. He then joined
                                     Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad, a       Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship
                                     company providing services to the oil      in other public companies or listed
                                     & gas industry in 2006 as Accountant       issuers.
                                     responsible for overall finance and

Leslie Chng Theng Tat                Mr. Leslie Chng Theng Tat, aged 62, a      various portfolios including key
                                     Malaysian, male, was appointed as the      accounts, brand management, channel
            Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer of Rex Canning     and merchandising and marketing
   of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.      Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of the         operations. He also spent four (4)
                                     Company, on 15 April 2019.                 years in Thailand as marketing director
                                                                                cum country manager of the London
                                     Mr. Leslie holds a Sales Management        American Tobacco Company Limited
                                     Certificate from the Marketing Council     from 2014 to 2018. Prior to joining
                                     of Australia and has over thirty-seven     the Group, he was a senior manager
                                     (37) years of experience in the fast-      with Mobile Kiosk Sdn. Bhd., a major
                                     moving consumer goods industry.            distributor of mobile phone accessories
                                                                                to the modern trade.
                                     Mr. Leslie started his career with
                                     Rothmans of Pall Mall, which later         Mr. Leslie does not hold any directorship
                                     became British American Tobacco            in other public companies or listed
                                     Malaysia Berhad, where he helmed           issuers.
                                  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                       16  Annual Report 2021

Profile of
Key Senior Management

(Cont’d)

     Chu Seang Ming               Mr. Chu Seang Ming, aged 55, a            undertook laboratory quality control
                                  Malaysian, male, was appointed as the     tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In
                 General Manager  General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning,      1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn.
of P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia    a subsidiary of the Company, on 1         Bhd., a subsidiary of the Company, as
                                  May 1998.                                 its Quality Control Supervisor. He then
                                                                            moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia
                                  Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business        in 1992 as its Quality Control Manager.
                                  Administration, Marketing from            From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was
                                  Washington International University       tasked with establishing and setting up
                                  and various certifications, which         a new processing plant and operations
                                  include Indonesia Fishery Department      for the Rex Group in People’s Republic
                                  – QMP & HACCP Program (1994), FDA/        of China in his capacity as General
                                  USDA Better Process Control School,       Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods Ltd.
                                  Indonesia (1995), NOAA – Seafood          Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex
                                  Sensory Program, USA (2000) and           Canning in 1998 to be in charge of
                                  HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia              the general management of P.T. Rex
                                  (2000).                                   Canning.

                                  Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen  Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship
                                  food manufacturer based in Perak as       in other public companies or listed
                                  a Factory Quality Controller where he     issuers.

Chris Kong Wai Fa                 Ms. Chris Kong Wai Fa, aged 57, a         to operations, sales and eventually
                                  Malaysian, female, was appointed          becoming the Chief Executive Officer
            General Manager       as the General Manager of the             of a logistics company involved in land,
         of the Procurement,      Procurement, Logistic and Warehouse       sea and air transport, forwarding and
   Logistic and Warehouse         of the Company on 1 June 2016.            warehousing.
     of Rex Industry Berhad
                                  Ms. Chris started her career in the       Ms. Chris does not hold any directorship
                                  Finance Department of a logistics         in other public companies or listed
                                  business in 1983, working her way up      issuers.

       Ng Sioh Ching              Ms. Ng Sioh Ching, aged 46, a             experience in quality control for
                                  Malaysian, female, was appointed          canned food processing. She then
           Senior Plant Manager   as the Senior Plant Manager of Rex        undertook operations task for canned
of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.      Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd, a subsidiary of     food, beverage, and confectionery
                                  the company on 1 July 2021.               processing before she was promoted
                                                                            as Senior Plant Manager.
                                  Ms. Ng graduated with a Degree
                                  in Food Science. She started her          Ms. Ng does not hold any directorship
                                  career as a quality controller in Rex     in other public companies or listed
                                  Canning in 2000. She has 10 years’        issuers.

Notes:

Save as disclosed above, none of the Key Senior Management has:-

1. any family relationship with any Director and/or Major Shareholder of the Company;
2. any conflict of interest with the Company; and
3. any conviction for offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, or any public sanction or

        penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Annual Report 2021  17  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                              OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (the “Board”) recognises the importance of
practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and to protect and
enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”).

The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (the “Statement”) to provide
an overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set out in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3) key principles, under
the stewardship of the Board:-

a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.

This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG Report of the Company
for the financial year ended 30 June 2021 (“FYE 2021”) published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

          Intended Outcome 1.0

          Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership and is
          collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.

        1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group Managing
                Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group with the support of a
                senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the operations, issues faced and action
                plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast on the conduct, business activities and development
                of the Company and to discuss and advise the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term
                and long-term business strategies. Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the
                objectives to be met and how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources
                are efficiently and effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s
                values and standards.

                To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
                responsibilities to three (3) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee
                (“ARMC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”). The Board Committees assist
                the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions and
                terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved by the Board.
                The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions
                deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  18  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

        1.1 (cont’d)

                To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the Company during
                the FYE 2021, the Board had, amongst others:-

                (a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
                        behaviour;

                (b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals and monitored their implementation by
                        the Management;

                (c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and sustainability;
                (d) supervised and assessed Management performance regularly;
                (e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
                (f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to ensure that

                        the risks are properly managed;
                (g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key positions;
                (h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with stakeholders;

                        and
                (i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.

        1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive Director
                (“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group and to
                monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.

                Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-

                (a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for the
                        Board decisions;

                (b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged constructive
                        discussions and effective contribution from each Director;

                (c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
                        deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;

                (d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance practices within
                        the Group;

                (e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely expressed;
                (f) chaired the general meetings of the Company and committed to answer queries from the shareholders;
                (g) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and that their

                        views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and improvement, if any;
                (h) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth communication

                        flow between both parties; and
                (i) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability and in any

                        marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.
Annual Report 2021  19  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

        1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with clear
                accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to ensure a balance
                of power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of decision making.

                The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight of Management
                as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has overall responsibilities over the
                business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the Board’s policies
                and decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in the Company’s Board Charter.

        1.4 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, namely Ms.
                Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per Section 235(2)(a) of
                the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association of the Institute of Chartered
                Secretaries and Administrators.

                The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by a dedicated team
                of secretarial personnel.

                During the FYE 2021, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities accordingly.
                They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the capital market, CG,
                and other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory environment through continuous training
                and industry updates.

                The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the Board
                in discharging their functions and duties.

        1.5 While the Management strives to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business days in
                advance in accordance with the Company’s Constitution, there had been instances where the financial reports
                and other documents could not be ready on time.

                Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and accurate
                record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the Company Secretaries
                to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their review and for them to seek for
                clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board or Board Committee meeting.

                Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the Board or
                Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of the Company to
                be made available for inspection.

                The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate information to
                the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge their duties and
                responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting materials are circulated at
                least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  20  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

          Intended Outcome 2.0

          There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.

          There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.

        2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October 2018 and
                includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details the responsibilities
                of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management limitations, as well as an outline
                on what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles and responsibilities as Board Members.
                With this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of the Directors and the Management are clearly
                set out in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.

                The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

                The TOR of the ARMC was approved by the Board on 19 November 2019 for adoption.

                The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and matters
                deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee meetings and
                reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the Board during Board
                meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.

                The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.

                Activities of the NC

                During the FYE 2021, the NC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-

                (i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NC meetings held;
                (ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character, experience,

                        integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a comprehensive
                        assessment system;
                (iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees;
                (iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
                (v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
                (vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring independent
                        and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
                (vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
                        (“AGM”); and
                (viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.

                During the FYE 2021, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes of deliberating
                on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important matters. During the
                Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group and other strategic issues
                that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members were invited to attend some of
                the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.
Annual Report 2021  21  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

        2.1 (cont’d)

                Activities of the NC (cont’d)

                The NC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee meetings.
                Upon review, the NC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time and effort to
                attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2021.

                The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2021 is set out below:-

Directors                   Directorship        Board  ARMC    NC      RC
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim       INED             4/5
bin Mohd Zain                                          4/5     2/2     2/2
Tai Keat Chai                    INED             5/5
Adnan bin Ahmad                  INED             5/5     5/5     2/2     2/2
                                                          5/5
Darmendran Kunaretnam       Non-Independent       5/5             Not     Not
Chee Cheng Chun             Executive Director            Not  Member  Member
                                                  5/5  Member
                                 Non-INED                         Not     Not
                                                          Not  Member  member
                                                       Member
                                                                  Not     Not
                                                               Member  Member

In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance their
skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.

The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-

• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed by
        the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;

• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their knowledge
        on the latest regulatory and business environment; and

• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.

Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education would be
the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to
meet the challenges ahead.
                            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  22  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

        2.1 (cont’d)
                Activities of the NC (cont’d)
                During the FYE 2021, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-

Name of Directors                   Dates                          Description of
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim  10 November 2020                 Training Programmes
bin Mohd Zain
Tai Keat Chai                  2 March 2021   BRI Post Covid-19 New Opportunities and
                                              Challenges
Darmendran Kunaretnam          9 March 2021
                                              Corporate Director Development Programme
                                              Module 3 Risk Oversight and Compliance -
                                              Action Plan for Board of Directors

                                              Introduction to Corporate Directorship

Encik Adnan bin Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng Chun did not attend any structured training programmes during
the financial year under review but they have continuously kept themselves abreast of the relevant developments
in the marketplace through the updates and briefings by the Company Secretaries, as well as briefings by
the Internal Auditors and External Auditors, communications with other Directors and daily work exposures
throughout the year.

 Intended Outcome 3.0

 The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture
 that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.

 The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered acceptable
 behaviour and practice in the Company.

3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-

        • Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
                behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and

        • Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
                based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.

        Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees (“Officers”) of the Group.

        The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
Annual Report 2021  23  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

        3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a Whistleblowing Policy to facilitate the Company’s employees
                and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud, waste of the Company’s
                resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.

                Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should be made
                in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are substantially true and
                the report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will be viewed seriously and if proven
                may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.

                During the FYE 2021, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
                abovementioned communication and feedback channels.

                The Board had adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to ensure the Company’s daily
                operations and businesses do not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or benefit.

                The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and corruption
                pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the 2018 amendment
                to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.

                The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

II. BOARD COMPOSITION

          Intended Outcome 4.0

          Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account diverse
          perspectives and insights.

        4.1 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-INED and one (1) Non-Independent Executive
                Director.

                The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate a balanced
                leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to safeguard the interests of the
                Company and its stakeholders.

        4.2 None of the existing Independent Directors of the Company has exceeded the tenure of a cumulative term of
                nine (9) years in the Company as at 30 June 2021.

        		Notwithstanding the above, the NC has assessed the independence of the Independent Directors and monitors
                the tenure of the Independent Directors annually.

        4.3 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
                a step-up practice.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  24  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)

II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

        4.4 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer greater
                depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management level.

        		
        		The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of senior

                management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven by any age, cultural
                background or gender considerations.

        		While there is no female director on the Board, there are two (2) female members in the senior management
                team at present.

        4.5 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy, the Board practices
                non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports the representation
                of women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the Company.

        		Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when vacancies
                arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary aim of selecting the best
                candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.

        4.6 There was no new Director appointed to the Board during the FYE 2021.

                The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when the need
                arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board members, Management
                and/or major shareholders.

        4.7 The NC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the annual
                review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of each individual Director
                is independently assessed.

          Intended Outcome 5.0

          Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual Directors.

        5.1 During the FYE 2021, the Board, through the NC, had conducted the following annual assessments to determine
                the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in the financial year ended
                30 June 2020 (“FYE 2020”):-

                (i) Directors’ self-assessment;
                (ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
                (iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
                (iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
                (v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.

                Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2020, the NC was satisfied with the performance
                of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.
Annual Report 2021         25        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                          CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
III. REMUNERATION

Intended Outcome 6.0

The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account the
Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to drive the
Company’s long-term objectives.

Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.

6.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred by the
        RC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group MD, Non-Executive Directors
        and other senior management personnel.

6.2 Currently, the RC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is presently
        chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The RC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
        duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 18 October 2018.

Intended Outcome 7.0

Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management is
commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s performance.

7.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2021 in the Company and Group
        levels respectively, is as follows:-

        (i) Company Level

                    Name of                   Salaries    Directors’       Statutory   Benefits-   Bonus and
                    Director                and other            Fees  contribution       in-kind  allowances
                                        emoluments               (RM)                        (RM)
                                                                                 (RM)                       (RM)
                                                   (RM)

                    Executive Director

                    Darmendran               –            –            –               –           –

                    Kunaretnam

                    Total                    –            –            –               –           –

                    Non-Executive Directors

                    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd       –            41,310       –               –           2,500

                    Ibrahim bin Mohd

                    Zain

                    Tai Keat Chai            –            72,000       –               –           2,500

                    Adnan bin Ahmad          –            30,600       –               –           2,500

                    Chee Cheng Chun          –            30,600       –               –           2,500

                    Total                    –            174,510      –               –           10,000
                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD          26  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)

        7.1 (cont’d)
                (ii) Group Level

Name of                   Salaries   Directors’       Statutory   Benefits-   Bonus and
Director                and other           Fees  contribution       in-kind  allowances
                    emoluments              (RM)                        (RM)
                                                            (RM)                       (RM)
                               (RM)

Executive Director

Darmendran               510,971     –            69,467              –       –
Kunaretnam

Total                    510,971     –            69,467              –       –

Non-Executive Directors

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd       –           41,310               –           –       2,500

Ibrahim bin Mohd

Zain

Tai Keat Chai            –           72,000               –           –       2,500

Adnan bin Ahmad          –           30,600               –           –       2,500

Chee Cheng Chun          –           30,600               –           –       2,500

Total                    –           174,510              –           –       10,000

7.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management staff on a
        named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the Group taking into consideration the
        competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the
        privacy of senior management staff.

7.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not be disclosed for
        confidentiality purposes.
Annual Report 2021  27  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

I. Audit Committee

          Intended Outcome 8.0

          There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.

          The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The
          Company’s financial statements are a reliable source of information.

        8.1 During the FYE 2021, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman of the
                Board is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the
                Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.

        8.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may arise when
                a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and preparation of the
                Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC (as approved by the Board on 19 November 2019)
                and the Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors
                (which was adopted on 18 October 2018) require a former key audit partner of the Company’s external auditors
                to observe a minimum two (2)-year cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the ARMC.

                During the FYE 2021, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to uphold
                the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit partner as a
                member of the ARMC or Board.

        8.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of
                External Auditors’ that sets out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability,
                objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.

                In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has considered the
                following:-

                (a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation to the
                        audit;

                (b) Persons assigned to the audit;
                (c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
                (d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely

                        manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
                (e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of fees; and
                (f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been, independent

                        throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional
                        and regulatory requirements.

                The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective and independent
                to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board has in turn recommended the same for
                shareholders’ approval at the Twenty-Sixth (“26th”) AGM of the Company.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  28  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)

        8.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.

        8.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding of the
                Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the financial reporting process.

                The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and fair view
                of the Company’s financial position and performance.

                All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous professional
                development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and auditing standards,
                practices and rules as and when required.

II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

          Intended Outcome 9.0

          Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement necessary
          controls to pursue their objectives.

          The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable future
          event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.

        9.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify, assess and
                monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets by monitoring
                the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external auditors and the outsourced internal
                auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control processes and procedures
                periodically to ensure that the system is viable and robust.

                With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk management
                and internal control.

        9.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised the results
                of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment process of the Group.

                The deliverables included in the internal audit reports had been discussed with the senior management of
                the Group. The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus areas of
                the Group. The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of the Board and
                Management of the Company.

        9.3 The Board had on 30 September 2019 approved the renaming of the AC to ARMC, which comprises solely
                Independent Directors, to assist the Board in discharging the responsibilities and duties relating to accounting
                and reporting practices as well as to monitor the overall risk management framework, the financial reporting
                processes, the compliance processes, the performances of external and internal auditors and overseeing the
                audit program of the Group.
Annual Report 2021  29  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)

          Intended Outcome 10.0

          Companies have an effective governance, risk management and internal control framework and
          stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.

        10.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield Corporate
                Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable assurance of
                adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.

                The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of the Company’s
                compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further improvement.

                During the FYE 2021, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency
                and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2020 and that they have the necessary authority
                to carry out their work.

                The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of the Company
                and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is satisfactory and operating
                effectively.

        10.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the internal
                audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair their
                objectivity and independence.

                The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a university
                degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The Engagement Partner,
                Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk management and corporate
                governance advisory.

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                     STAKEHOLDERS

I. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS

          Intended Outcome 11.0

          There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
          understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.

          Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its policies
          on governance, the environment and social responsibility.

        11.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication to the investing
                public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group are accurate, timely, factual,
                informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary, information filed with regulators is in
                accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

                The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated spokespersons
                will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow of information disclosure
                to the stakeholders.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  30  Annual Report 2021

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                     STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

I. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

        11.1 (cont’d)

                The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders through
                a variety of communication channels as follows:-

                (a) Announcements to Bursa Securities

                        Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis through
                        announcements to Bursa Securities.

                        Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly financial
                        results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via the Company’s
                        website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

                (b) Annual reports

                        The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating to the
                        shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for the past financial
                        year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.

                (c) AGM/ general meetings

                        The AGM/ general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise any issues
                        pertaining to the Company.

                (d) Corporate website

                        The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company and is
                        accessible by the public.

                (e) Investor relations

                        Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they have any
                        comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the Company’s general
                        email address.

        11.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated reporting
                based on a globally recognised framework.
Annual Report 2021  31  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                   OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
                     STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS

          Intended Outcome 12.0

          Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and make
          informed voting decisions at general meetings.

        12.1 The AGM provides an opportunity for the shareholders to seek and clarify any issues pertaining to the Group
                and to have a better understanding of the Group’s activities and performance. Both individuals and institutional
                shareholders are encouraged to meet and communicate with the Board at the AGM and to vote on all resolutions.

                During the FY2021, the reason for issuing the Annual Report containing the Notice of 26th AGM of the Company
                with less than twenty-eight (28) days’ notice period to shareholders, which is recommended by the MCCG,
                was mainly due to the Management focusing more on back-end operation works and solving the significant
                issues faced by the Group with the aims of improving the business and financial performance of the Company.

                The Notice of AGM, which set out the business to be transacted at the AGM, was published in a major local
                newspaper with at least twenty-one (21) days’ notice as prescribed in the Company’s Constitution. The notes
                to the Notice of AGM also provided detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable shareholders
                to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.

                In an effort to strive for higher adoption of the MCCG, the Management had ensured that the Notice of the
                27th AGM is circulated to shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the date of the AGM.

        12.2 All the Directors of the Company attended the 26th AGM of the Company held on 24 November 2020 to engage
                with the shareholders proactively.

                The proceedings of the 26th AGM included a question and answer session in which the Chairman of the AGM
                invited shareholders to raise questions on the Company’s financial statements and other agenda items for
                adoption at the 26th AGM, before putting a resolution to vote.

                The Chairmen of the Board Committees were also readily available to address the questions posted by the
                shareholders to them at the 26th AGM.

        12.3 Given the intense situation with the Covid-19 pandemic and safe distancing requirements imposed by the
                Government, which discourages mass gatherings, the Board had conducted the 26th AGM of the Company
                held on 24 November 2020 on a fully virtual basis to enable the shareholders of the Company to participate
                fully in the proceedings at more than one (1) venue using any technology facilities and to exercise their right to
                speak and vote at the meeting without the need to be physically present at the venue. Where the shareholders
                were not able to participate, they could and had appointed proxies to participate and vote on their behalf.

                The Board has again decided that the upcoming 27th AGM of the Company is to be held virtually to encourage
                more shareholder participation in a safer manner amidst the still intense situation with the Covid-19 pandemic.

The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly approved at the Board
of Directors’ Meeting held on 8 October 2021.
                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  32  Annual Report 2021

Sustainability
Statement

INTRODUCTION

Acknowledging that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change, the Board of Directors (“Board”)
is pleased to present the Group’s Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 30 June 2021 (“the Statement”),
which has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability
Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

This statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking to embrace
sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.

This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis and we are committed to further it, specifically on the material
sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are also laying out the
action plan to do so in this Statement.

SCOPE

This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-

• Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
• Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.
• Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd.
• Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd.

And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.

Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to:-

• Manufacturing of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Trading / sales of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
• Manufacturing, trade / sales of confectionaries.
• Trading of manufactured biscuit

Collectively, the above contributed to more than 35% of the Group’s total revenue. And our reporting period is from 1 July
2020 to 30 June 2021, unless otherwise stated.

GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS

Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure in relation
to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is chaired by our Group
Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Departments i.e.:-

• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics

The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of the ARMC.
The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The Board is ultimately
accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also chairs the SWG, being
tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.
Annual Report 2021  33  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (cont’d)                         Sustainability
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-        Statement

BOARD OF Board of       Audit AND RISK                                                (Cont’d)
DIRECTORS Directors     Management
                        Committee                                    Sustainability
                                                                     Working Group

                                                                      Head of Departments:-
                                                                      • Finance
                                                                      • Sales and Marketing
                                                                      • Procurement
                                                                      • Manufacturing
                                                                      • Warehouse and Logistics

SUSTAINABIILTY STRATEGY

We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As part of our
sustainability strategy, we have established four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that, while running the business effectively,
we are also committed to contribution to the larger community. The four (4) Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-

                        Environment

Supplier                                                           Community

                        Employees
                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                          34  Annual Report 2021

Sustainability
Statement

(Cont’d)

STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT

We have identified and prioritized the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these stakeholders
over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters with the respective
stakeholders prioritized, as illustrated below:-

Stakeholders                    Engagement Platforms                          Engagement Matters
Shareholders        • Annual General Meeting
                    • Financial statements                       • Dividend
Board of Directors  • Press releases/announcements               • Return on investment
Employees                                                        • Financial performance
                    • Board meetings                             • Share performance
Government /        • Annual General Meeting
Regulators          • Company organised events                   • Corporate Governance
                    • Orientation training                       • Company business strategy
Customers           • Learning and development
Suppliers                                                        • Occupational safety & health
Local communities       programmes                               • Human resource management
                    • Employee performance appraisal             • Fair employment practices
                    • Corporate organised events                 • Career development opportunities
                    • Ongoing interactions                       • Occupational health & safety
                    • Formal and informal meetings
                                                                 • Manufacturing issues and policies
                    • Face-to-face interaction                   • Foods safety issues and policies
                    • Feedback survey                            • Effluent & waste management
                                                                 • Water & energy management
                    • Interviews                                 • Compliance to applicable laws
                    • Evaluations/Re-evaluations                 • Economic, Environmental and
                    • Face-to-face interaction
                    • Corporate volunteering programmes              social impacts

                        (e.g. community events, knowledge-       • Manufacturing quality
                        sharing initiatives & partnerships with  • Manufacturing capacity
                        nongovernmental organisations)           • Research & Development

                                                                 • Agreeable contracts
                                                                 • Terms of payments
                                                                 • Maintaining partnerships

                                                                 • Support towards community
                                                                     development

                                                                 • Job creation for local communities
                                                                 • Undertaking business in a responsible

                                                                     manner
Annual Report 2021  35  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             Sustainability
                                                   Statement

                                                                (Cont’d)

MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS

We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material sustainability
matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a role.

A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not been finalised
for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.

The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the coming
financial years:-

a) To perform studies of what are being practiced by peers in similar industry.

b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from all relevant
        departments/functions.

c) To prioritize the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-

        o Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
        o Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.

e) With reference to data collected from (a) and (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
        the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
        practices and policies.

SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS

Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current sustainability efforts in relation
to the Material Sustainability Matters are set out below:-

Economic

A.	Product Quality and Safety

        We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our products that are
        safe for consumption.

        We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such as
        Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”) and
        Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attained the Halal
        MS 1500:2009 certification.

        We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which have
        clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the Group’s product
        quality and safety.
                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  36  Annual Report 2021

Sustainability
Statement

(Cont’d)

SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (CONT’D)

Environment

A. Effluent and waste management

        Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would potentially
        end up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the waste water treatment plant
        (WWT) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried out on the WWT to cater for the increase
        in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater
        discharged is within the Department of Environment’s wastewater effluent discharge standards.

B. Energy consumption

        The retrofitting of the Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility to natural gas was completed in March 2019.

        Positives from this initiative include; eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the
        life spans of the boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in, gas is
        better insulated stable against supply disruptions.

Social

A. Workplace Safety & Health

        We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the foundation
        of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety and Health Act
        (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FAM”) 1997 are adhered to.

        Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all level of employees are well aware of their
        significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated throughout
        the Group.

B. Human resource management

        Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high calibre
        employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed in nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent
        pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and performance
        enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.

        For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered
        to as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as general public in the form of
        quality products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.

C. Contribution to local community

        Under its ongoing good corporate citizenship program, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of REX’s products
        which carry the ‘Love Rex” goes to support various disabled and underprivileged groups in our society.

        Throughout FYE 2021, we continue to support 7 homes for the underprivileged in the Klang Valley. While under the
        REX CARE program over 1,500 needy families in Kedah, Pahang, Kelantan, Terengganu, Sarawak and Sabah were
        provided food baskets to help them tide over the Covid 19 Pandemic.

        In addition, REX also work with the Yayasan Kebajikan Negara’s to provide food baskets to over 30,000 families
        across the country.
Annual Report 2021  37  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                              REPORT

The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”) in
discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting practices as well as
corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).

1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC

        During the financial year ended 30 June 2021 (“FYE 2021”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as follows, all
        of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which is recommended by Step Up Practice 8.4 of the Malaysian
        Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the Audit Committee comprises solely Independent Directors:-

Name                                      Designation                 Directorship
Tai Keat Chai                               Chairman   Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin              Member     Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Zain
Adnan bin Ahmad                             Member     Independent Non-Executive Director

        The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the
        requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
        Requirements.

        None of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens
        Associates PLT in the previous two (2) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any financial interest in Messrs.
        Moore Stephens Associates PLT.

2. MEETING ATTENDANCE

        The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2021. The details of the attendance of the respective
        ARMC members are as follows:-

Name                                                   No. of Meetings Attended*
Tai Keat Chai                                                         5 of 5
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                              4 of 5
Adnan bin Ahmad                                                       5 of 5

        * The Meetings were held on 27 August 2020, 20 October 2020, 30 October 2020, 24 February 2021 and 28
                April 2021.

        The audit partners of the External Auditors responsible for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings
        held in the FYE 2021.

        The ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
        personnel thrice during the FYE 2021, which was more than the requirement of having at least two (2) private sessions
        with the External Auditors per year as stipulated in the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC.

3. TOR

        The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
                 REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  38  Annual Report 2021

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

(Cont’d)

4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC

        During the FYE 2021, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties, functions
        and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-

        Financial performance and reporting

        a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial quarters
                ended 30 June 2020, 30 September 2020, 31 December 2020 and 31 March 2021, and recommended the
                same to the Board for approval.

        b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of the Group
                on quarterly basis.

        c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 (“FYE 2020”)
                to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
                position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act
                2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, and recommended the same to the
                Board for approval.

        External audit

        a) Met thrice with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management personnel.

        b) Received the Audit Committee (“AC”) closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2020,
                covering matters to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.

        c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2021 prepared by the External
                Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit matters and areas of audit
                emphasis and accounting standard updates.

        d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2021, and recommended the same to
                the Board for approval.

        e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-

                • Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
                • Review of component auditors’ working papers.

        f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2020 vide a
                formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review and being satisfied
                with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the Board to recommend to the
                shareholders for approval.

        g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
Annual Report 2021  39  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                             AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                              REPORT

                                                                     (Cont’d)

4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (CONT’D)

        Internal audit

        a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to those
                recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were taken and
                recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.

        b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit functions
                vide a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its
                work.

        c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2021 as prepared by the Internal Auditors.

        Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)

        a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to ensure
                that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Sixth Annual General
                Meeting of the Company held on 24 November 2020.

        b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder
                Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares, and
                recommended the same to the Board for approval.

        Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control

        a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company, and
                recommended the same to the Board for approval.

        b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement, and
                recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2020 Annual Report.

        Other matters

        a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s peer
                performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of office and
                performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they have carried out their
                duties properly in accordance to the TOR.

        b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the ARMC.

        c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
                 REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  40  Annual Report 2021

AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT

(Cont’d)

5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

        The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service provider
        to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective internal control and
        governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is satisfactory and operating
        effectively.

        The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-

        a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;

        b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved audit plan:-

                • Bank accounts, reconciliation and payment of the Group; and
                • Purchasing, accounts payable and payments of the Group.

        c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The reports
                highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations for improvements;
                and

        d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported the same
                to the ARMC.

        The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2021 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any material
        losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.

        The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the FYE 2021 was RM8,923.
Annual Report 2021  41  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                         STATEMENT OF
                   DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

                                                                               FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as to give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results and cash flows for the year then ended.

The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021:-

• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out
in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited
financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021.

The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the Group are released
to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public informed of the Group’s latest
performance and developments.

The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are reasonably
available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities and material
misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement, loss or fraud.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  42  Annual Report 2021

Statement On Risk Management
And Internal Control

This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of Rex Industry
Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2021 pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support
and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.

The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased to set out below its
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal
control of the Group during the year.

The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management and
internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and
regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated
and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and provide some reasonable but
not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are safeguarded against material losses and
unauthorised use and that the financial statements are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated
in a systematic manner.

The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and
appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Group Managing Directors is empowered by the Board and shall
be responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting the achievement of business
objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process.
All significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.

The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the Group include:

1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
        Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas of responsibility,
        authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;

2. Involvement of the Group Managing Directors in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance at operational
        and management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and procedures. The Group Managing
        Directors have regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic issues and challenges affecting the respective
        business units with the heads of business units. Significant matters identified during these meetings are highlighted
        to the Board on a timely basis; and

3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the Group by the
        Group Managing Directors and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief Financial Officer on quarterly
        basis;

The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service provider that
reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach in identifying major
operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking into consideration corporate
exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry out reviews on areas which are identified
by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the control processes to address
the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the control processes, where appropriate.

The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed appropriate
within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk Management Committee
with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action taken by Management to ensure
adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess
implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal control
implemented. During the financial year, the Internal Auditors reviewed the control over payment, bank transactions and
inventory in the Malaysian subsidiaries. Their report has been presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Annual Report 2021  43  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                        Statement On Risk Management
                                         And Internal Control

                                                                                  (Cont’d)

The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies of the Group.
Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees the risk management
process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at subsidiary level.

Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:

• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks

The report of RMWG will be presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee , highlighting key risks and risk
management activities carried out during that period.

The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has not resulted in
any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the Group during the financial
year under review or requires disclosure in the Annual Report 2021. Nevertheless, the Board recognises the review and
improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control is an on-going process to accommodate
evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal
control of the Group could be closely managed, monitored and improved over time.

Conclusion

The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks, procedures,
management processes, monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered appropriate. While the Board
acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not eliminate the possibility of collusion or
deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might
result in poor judgment, an assurance was received from the Group Managing Director and Group Financial Officer that the
risk management and internal control system of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues
to take measures to enhance and strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.

Review of the Statement by External Auditors

The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the financial year
ended 30 June 2021. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide 3 (“AAPG3”),
Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, issued by
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”), AAPG3 does not require the external auditors to, and they did not consider
whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk and control procedures. AAPG3 also does not require the external auditors to consider whether the processes
described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the Annual Report will, in
fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have reported to the Board that nothing has
come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent with their
understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the risk management and
internal control system.

This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 8 October 2021.
                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         44           Annual Report 2021

Additional Compliance
Information

In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following information is
provided:-

1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals

The Company had on 15 December 2020 completed a Renounceable Rights Issue of 246,626,468 Rights Shares
on the Main Board of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Renounceable Rights Issue has raised gross proceeds
of RM24,662,647. Status of utilisation of proceeds derived from the corporate proposal of the Company was as
follows: -

		Proposed                                                  Actual     Unutilised       Revised
                                                                                    Timeframe
Purpose                       Utilisation                   Utilisation	Proceeds

		                            RM’000                        RM’000     RM’000

Repayment of bank borrowings  11,000                        (11,000)         –                           –
Working capital               11,133                        (11,161)     *(28)                           –
Upgrade of machineries                                                 2,000        by 15 June 2022
Estimated expenses             2,000                                –     *28                            –
                                  530                           (502)

Total gross proceeds          24,663                        (22,663)   2,000

Note : * the balance of the unutilised proceeds of RM28,000 for the estimated expenses had been reclassified and
           utilised as working purposes.

2. Audit and Non-Audit Services

        During the financial year ended 30 June 2021, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has
        rendered certain audit and non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as
        follows:-

Item                                                                   Company        Group
                                                                              (RM)      (RM)
Audit services rendered
Statutory Audit in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2021        55,000   221,581
Non-audit services rendered
a) Review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control               8,000     8,000
b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers                            12,000    12,000
Total                                                                      75,000   241,581

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

        There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ interests or
        are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2020.
Annual Report 2021  45  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                        MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                            AND ANALYSIS

Our History and Business

Rex Industry Behad (“Rex”) was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies
Act 1965 by the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn. Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital
of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. and took on the function as a holding
company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”). The Company
changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn. Bhd. on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited company on 16
February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.

Rex Group is involved in manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.
a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading manufacturer, distributor and
exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. P.T. Rex Canning Indonesia began commercial
operations in August 1992; with principal activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. P.T. Rex
Canning operates under stringent standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. The majority
of P.T. Rex Canning’s canned seafood is exported to the US and EU.

Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing population.

Our Policy

Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They are
implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance with local and
international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.

Financial Performance

For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2021, the Group recorded revenue of RM160.54 million which represents an
increase of approximately RM11.30 million or 7.6% as compared to the preceding financial year of RM149.24 million. The
increase in revenue was mainly due to higher revenue contribution from the Indonesia subsidiary as a result of an increase
in the Group’s sales volume of canned products to the overseas market.

The Group recorded profit before tax of RM3.91 million for the FYE 30 June 2021 as compared to the loss before tax of
RM8.40 million incurred in the preceding financial year. This was contributed from improved operational efficiency and
lower operating expenses in implementing cost saving exercise coupled with absence of provision for credit loss on trade
and other receivables and inventory obsolescence in the preceding financial year as well as higher profit achieved by the
Indonesia subsidiary.
                                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD      46                  Annual Report 2021

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

(Cont’d)

Financial Performance (CONT’D)

REX GROUP			                                                      FYE 2019            FYE 2020     FYE 2021

(All in RM’000)

Revenue			136,608                                                                     149,245      160,539

Profit / (Loss) before tax			                                     (14,317)            (8,396)      3,912

The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and deliver
satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.

Financial Highlights                               30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21

Statement of Profit and Loss                       RM’000         RM’000    RM’000     RM’000      RM’000
Turnover (Continuing operations)
Turnover (Discontinued operations)                    130,175     130,323   136,608    149,245     160,539
Profit/ (Loss) before Tax after Minority Interest          9,470                                             –
Interest                                                          –         –                   –     3,912
Profit/ (Loss) after Tax and Minority Interest           2,432                                        1,531
Dividend                                                 1,070    (15,094)  (14,317)   (8,396)        2,603
                                                         3,255                                              –
                                                         (1,233)  1,539     1,905      2,050

                                                                  (15,153)  (13,297)   (9,465)

                                                                  –         –                   –

Statement of Financial Position                     73,743         73,743    73,743     73,743      97,903
Paid-up Share Capital                              142,466        126,422   113,672    101,891     127,404
Shareholders Funds
Borrowings                                          21,888         29,946    36,472     42,209      28,884
Net Tangible Assets                                134,577        118,533   107,635     94,854     120,367
Annual Report 2021       47       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                   MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                       AND ANALYSIS

                                                                                                            (Cont’d)

Financial Ratio

                                            30 Jun 17 30 Jun 18 30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21

                                            RM’000                 RM’000      RM’000       RM’000  RM’000

Investment Ratio

NTA per share                               2.18                   0.48        0.43         0.38    0.24

Basic Earnings/ (Loss) Per Share (Sen)      5.27                   (8.05)      (5.39)       (3.84)  0.68

Gross Dividend rate (%)                                      2.00           –       –            –    –

Dividend coverage ratio (times)                         2.64                –            –      –   –

					

Operating Ratio

After tax return on shareholders’ fund (%)  2.28                   (11.99)     (11.70)      (9.29)  2.04

Pre-tax profit/(loss) margin (%)            1.74                   (11.58)     (10.48)      (5.63)  2.44

					

Financial Ratio

Gearing (times)                             0.154                  0.237       0.321        0.415   0.227

Interest Coverage ratio                     3.28                   (8.76)      (6.52)       (3.10)  3.56

					
Liquidity ratio

Current ratio                               2.45                   2.34        1.81         1.32    1.87

Quick ratio                                            1.31            1.26            0.99            0.61            0.93

Note:

1) The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 246,626,468 to 493,252,936 unit of ordinary shares
        by way of issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares arising from right issue exercise. The right issue has been
        completed following the Rights Shares were listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
        Berhad on 15 December 2020.

2) Basic Earning/(Loss) per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) after tax
        attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial
        year.
                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  48  Annual Report 2021

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

(Cont’d)

Changes in the composition of the Group

There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2021.

Corporate Exercise

The Company undertook a fund-raising exercise during the financial year for a renounceable rights issue of new ordinary
shares at the issue price of RM0.10 per rights share, on the basis of 1 rights share for every 1 existing share held. With
246,626,468 Right Shares subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM24.66 million. It was listed and
quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 15 December 2020.

The proceeds raised from the Rights Issue will be utilised firstly in priority to defray the expenses related to the Rights
Issue, and secondly towards repayment of bank borrowings, thirdly towards upgrade of machineries and lastly toward the
working capital required for the day-to-day operations of the Group.

Dividend

The Company has recommended a first and final dividend of 0.2 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM986,505 in respect
of the financial year ended 30 June 2021.

Outlook and Prospects

The Group’s business will remain challenging and volatile due to the uncertainty caused by Covid-19 pandemic. We are,
however, encouraged by our performance in the last quarter of FYE 2021. We are cautiously confident of building on this
positive momentum into FYE 2022.

With the aggressive rate of vaccination programs being rolled out in Malaysia, along with a streamlined product portfolio, our
proven strategies and plans and great teamwork, the group remains optimistic on further strengthening our market position.

Covid-19 has resulted in more frugal consumers and a shift in purchase sites and habits. At-home consumption, e-commerce,
modern trade and budget RM2.00 shops are gaining firmer traction. Budget RM2.00 shops will see greater relevance going
forward but while it offers a good avenue to expand our business into, eroding margins may pose a challenge.

The group sees improvements for its margins going forward as we continue to improve our production efficiency, product
mix and grow our topline. Since 2018, REX has reduced its products by 40% to focus more on higher margin products,
products that were less profitable but required lots of resources to produce were outsourced, headcount were significantly
rationalized by investing in automation.

The challenges brought about by the pandemic has made the management team take a closer look at its distribution
channels, inventory management and cash conversion cycle. This has driven us to make significant changes to our goods
return policies and how we handle our distributors. This approach has a positive effect as inventory write-offs and doubtful
debts have reduced significantly.

We remain proactive in addressing the challenges ahead and are cautiously optimistic of retaining a positive performance
in the new FYE 2022.
Annual Report 2021  49   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                              MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                  AND ANALYSIS

                                                                                       (Cont’d)

Significant Event

The Covid-19 pandemic will remain the most significant event for the new Financial Year. It appears that Malaysians will
have to live with the virus and exercise self-responsibility as the Government prepares its people for the “endemic” phase
of Covid-19 by the end of October 2021.

In the “endemic” phase, sectors that had to be closed due to Covid-19 containment efforts will eventually be allowed to
open with new Covid-19 norms being practised.

Whilst the business environment is expected to remain challenging and volatile, the Group with its streamlined product
portfolio, great teamwork and astute execution of strategies and plans is confident to surmount the challenges ahead and
capitalize from school re-opening and HORECA segment starting out again.

Acknowledgements

I take this opportunity to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their
continued support, trust and unwavering confidence over the past years.

To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the company forward.

DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
                                                  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD        50              Annual Report 2021

ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 1 OCTOBER 2021

Class of Securities        : Ordinary Shares
Total Number of Holders    : 2125
Voting Rights              : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                  No. of			                                    No. of
                                                                                                     %
Size of Shareholdings                             Shareholders      % Shares Held
                                                                                                  0.00
1 – 99                                                21             0.99               516       0.01
100 – 1,000                                         144              6.78           64,532        0.96
1,001 – 10,000                                      744             35.01       4,756,340         7.70
10,001 – 100,000                                  1,007             47.39     37,986,832        64.82
100,001 – 24,662,645 (*)                            207              9.74    319,711,916        26.50
24,662,646 and above (**)                                            0.09    130,732,800
                                                       2                                       100.00

TOTAL                                             2,125             100.00 493,252,936

				

Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
                ** 5% and above of Issued Shares

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on the Register
of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 1 October 2021 are as follows:

                                                  Direct Interest                Deemed Interest

                                                  No. of		                       No. of

Substantial Shareholders                          Shares Held       %        Shares Held          %

Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                           130,732,800       26.50                   –        –
Darmendran Kunaretnam                              62,549,704       12.68    130,732,800(1)    26.50
Chee Cheng Chun                                                  –           130,732,800(1)    26.50
                                                                          –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company
as at 1 October 2021 are as follows:

                                                  Direct Interest                Deemed Interest

                                                  No. of		                       No. of

Directors                                         Shares Held       %        Shares Held          %

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain           7,061,600         1.43                   –        –
Darmendran Kunaretnam                             62,549,704        12.68    130,732,800(1)    26.50
Chee Cheng Chun                                                              130,732,800(1)    26.50
Tai Keat Chai                                                  –          –
Adnan bin Ahmad                                                –          –                 –        –
                                                               –          –                 –        –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
Annual Report 2021  51  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                    THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES
                                          ACCOUNT HOLDERS

No. Name of Shareholders                                                            No. of    (%)
                                                                                  Shares    19.02
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                                   93,813,600
                                                                             36,919,200      7.48
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)             11,404,000      4.62

3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         22,337,000      4.53
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)               20,412,800      4.14
                                                                             20,170,504      4.09
4. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                             19,488,600      3.95
5. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd.                                                    18,115,400      3.67
                                                                             16,000,000      3.24
6. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)               15,980,000      3.24
                                                                             15,154,200      3.07
7. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                             11,107,200      2.25
8. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                             10,120,000      2.05
9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)                         7,061,600     1.43

10. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan                                                   6,660,000     1.35

11. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 6,488,000     1.32
        (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)
                                                                               6,051,200     1.23
12. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)                         5,412,000     1.10

13. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                5,052,528     1.02
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                 4,602,000     0.93

14. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                           3,760,000     0.76
        (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)
                                                                               3,400,000     0.69
15. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      3,200,000     0.65
        (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K. Ragavan)
                                                                               3,000,000     0.61
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)                           2,879,000     0.58
                                                                               2,800,000     0.57
17. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                 2,400,000     0.49

18. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        2,188,920     0.44
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)                       2,000,000     0.41

19. Lee Sew Keng                                                               1,555,200     0.32
                                                                            390,936,952     79.26
20. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)

21. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)

22. Darmendran Kunaretnam

23. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd.)

24. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Samuel Lo Qi Feng)

25. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.

26. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Best Acres Sdn. Bhd.)

27. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock)

28. Lee Chai Seng

29. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng)

30. Kuek Boon Siang

                                                                     TOTAL
                               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD        52     Annual Report 2021

Corporate
structure

                         100%  REX CANNING CO. SDN. BHD.

                         30%

                               70%   P.T. REX CANNING, INDONESIA

                         100%  REX TRADING SDN. BHD.

                               100%  BEST AQUA FOOD SDN. BHD.

                         100%  REX FOODS SDN. BHD.

                               100%  SUMMIT TEAMTRADE (2011) SDN. BHD.

               REX       100%  CINTA EDAR (M) SDN. BHD.
      INDUSTRY

        BERHAD

199301027926 (282664-K)

                               100%  CINTA EDAR (SELATAN) SDN. BHD.

                         100%  GAINASA INTERNATIONAL LIMITED

                               100%  FIKA FOODS MARKETING SDN. BHD.

                         100%  FIKA FOODS CORPORATION SDN. BHD.
Annual Report 2021  53  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                 DIRECTORS’
                                                       REPORT

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 30 June 2021.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 11 to
the financial statements.

There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.

RESULTS

				 Group                                                   Company
				RM                                                                RM

Profit for the year, net of tax attributable to  2,602,577  10,622,378
  Owners of the Company				

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.

ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid up ordinary shares from RM73,742,421 to RM97,903,444
by way of the issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10 per share for working capital
purposes, repayment of bank borrowings, upgrade of machineries and netted off with issuance expenses of RM501,624.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares
of the Company.
The Company has not issued any debentures during the financial year.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

DIVIDENDS
The Board of Directors has recommended a first and final single tier dividend of 0.20 sen per ordinary share for the financial
year ended 30 June 2021. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such
dividend, will be accounted for in equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending 30 June 2022.
                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                     54        Annual Report 2021

DIRECTORS’
REPORT

(Cont’d)

DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The Directors in office during the financial year and at the date of this report are:-

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
Chee Cheng Chun*
Tai Keat Chai*
Adnan Bin Ahmad

* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries

DIRECTOR OF THE SUBSIDIARIES

Pursuant to Section 253(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Director who served in the subsidiaries (excluding Directors
who are also Directors of the Company) since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report is as follow:

Vong Nee Toh

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings, the interest of Directors in office at the end of financial year in shares
or debentures of the Company and its related corporation during the financial year were as follows:

                                            Number of Ordinary Shares

		At			At

		                              1.7.2020    Allotment                                       Sold  30.6.2021

		Unit                                      Unit                                            Unit  Unit

Name of Directors                3,530,800   3,530,800                                      –     7,061,600
Ordinary shares in the Company  31,274,852  31,274,852
Direct interests:                                                                           –     62,549,704
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
  Bin Mohd Zain
Darmendran Kunaretnam

Indirect interests:             55,765,700  65,467,100                                      – 121,232,800
Darmendran Kunaretnam*          55,765,700  65,467,100                                      – 121,232,800
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

* deemed interest via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in
        Malaysia.

None of the other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
or its related corporations during the financial year.
Annual Report 2021  55  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                 DIRECTORS’
                                                       REPORT

                                                            (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company and the
estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash from the Company or
its subsidiaries for their services to the Company or its subsidiaries were as follows:

                                            			  Company     Subsidiaries
                                                                         RM
				 RM

Salaries and other emoluments                             –  510,971
Contributions to defined contribution plan                –   68,544
Social security contribution                              –       923
Fees and allowances                              184,510              –

				184,510                                                  580,438

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive any
benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the financial statements or the
fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation
with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest, other than as disclosed in Note 26 to the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling Directors of the
Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body
corporate.

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
        steps:

        (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
                provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
                adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

        (ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
                their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to
                an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:

        (i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
                inadequate to any substantial extent;

        (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
                Company misleading; 

        (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
                Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or

        (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
                financial statements misleading.
                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  56  Annual Report 2021

DIRECTORS’
REPORT

(Cont’d)

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)
(c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:

        (i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
                year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

        (ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:

        (i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or likely to become enforceable, within the period of
                twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the
                Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;

        (ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
                substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and

        (iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of
                the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations
                of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

(e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors as remuneration for their services as auditors for the financial
        year from the Company and its subsidiaries is RM241,581.

(f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the Company or
        any of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.

(g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company.

SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Details of significant events are disclosed in Note 32 to the financial statements.

EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF FINANCIAL YEAR
Detail of significant event subsequent to the end of the financial year is disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements.

AUDITORS
The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 8 October 2021.

TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN                       DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Annual Report 2021  57  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                         STATEMENT BY
                                               DIRECTORS

                                                         Pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016

We, the undersigned, being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the
accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 62 to 129 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, so as to give
a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2021 and of their financial
performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.

Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 8 October 2021.

TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN     DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM

                                               STATUTORY
                                           DECLARATION

                                                         Pursuant to Section 251(1) of the Companies Act 2016

I, CHIA HUP TONG, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 62 to 129 are to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions
of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly
declared by the abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory
on 8 October 2021

                                             CHIA HUP TONG

Before me,

TAN KIM CHOOI
W661
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  58  Annual Report 2021

INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT

TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
30 June 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes in
equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 62 to 129.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 30 June 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

Basis for Opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.

Key Audit Matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significant in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 

Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment

Goodwill

As at 30 June 2021, as shown in Note 13 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill amounted
to RM7.0 million.

The Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of impairment exists, perform impairment
assessments of goodwill that has an indefinite useful life. For the purpose of performing impairment assessments, goodwill
has been allocated to respective cash-generating units (“CGUs”). The recoverable amount of the underlying CGUs is
supported by value-in-use (“VIU”) or fair value less costs of disposal calculations which are based on future discounted
cash flows. The management concluded that no impairment on goodwill is required as at 30 June 2021.
Annual Report 2021  59  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                     INDEPENDENT
                                             AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                      (Cont’d)

Key Audit Matters (cont’d)

Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

Investments in subsidiaries

As at 30 June 2021, as shown in Note 11 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Company’s investment
in subsidiaries amounted to RM89.3 million.

A lower of net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amount of investments
in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount of the investment in
subsidiaries based on VIU calculations using cash flows projections derived from the most recent financial projections
approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.

Impairment review of property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)

As at 30 June 2021, as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, the carrying amounts of the Group’s PPE amounted
to RM78.9 million, representing approximately 40% of the Group’s total assets.

Certain subsidiaries were loss making and in accumulated losses position during the financial year. These resulted in
indications that the carrying amounts of PPE may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amount
of the PPE based on VIU calculations using cash flows projections derived from the most recent financial projections
approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.

We have identified the impairment review of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE as a key audit matter as
impairment test involves significant judgement in estimating the underlying assumptions to be applied in the discounted
cash flows projections of the VIU calculations. The recoverable amounts of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE
are highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect of future revenue growth rate, gross margin and the pre-tax
discount rate used in the cash flows projections. A small change in the assumption can have a significant impact on the
estimation of the recoverable amount.

Our audit performed and responses thereon

In addressing the matters above, we have performed the following audit procedures to evaluate management’s basis and
assumptions used in the VIU for respective subsidiaries and CGUs:-

• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts were prepared by management based on the approved budgets by the
        Directors;

• Evaluated management’s budgeting process by comparing actual results to historical cash flows projections;

• Reviewed management’s impairment assessment including their considerations of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic
        has on the operations and compares, gross margin and discount rate against our knowledge of the subsidiaries’
        and CGUs’ historical performance, business and cost management strategies based on facts and circumstances
        currently available; and

• Performed sensitivity analysis by changing certain key assumptions used in the VIU and assessed the impact on
        the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and PPE.
                  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  60  Annual Report 2021

INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT

(Cont’d)

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal
control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are also responsible for assessing
the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
        whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
        evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
        misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
        intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
        in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of
        the Company’s internal control.

(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
        related disclosures made by the Directors.
Annual Report 2021  61  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                     INDEPENDENT
                                             AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                      (Cont’d)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: (cont’d)

(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
        the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
        significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
        material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
        financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
        Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
        events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
        including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in
        a manner that achieves fair presentation.

(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
        within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
        supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the contents of
this report.

MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT                STEPHEN WAN YENG LEONG
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA)                                    02963/07/2023J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096)
                                                          Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 8 October 2021
                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD            62              Annual Report 2021

STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2021

                                                          Group                           Company

		2021                                                           2020         2021                              2020
                                                                  RM
                                     Note  RM                                 RM                                RM

Revenue                              4 160,539,264        149,245,245     11,000,000                  –
                                                            (5,465,037)                –              –
Changes in manufactured inventories        (5,662,607)                                 –              –
                                                          (97,575,192)                 –              –
Raw materials and consumables used         (100,791,279)  (22,079,295)                 –              –
                                                                                       –              –
Staff costs                                (20,652,871)     (3,576,446)                   (3,648,404)
                                                          (26,582,547)       (420,212)             102
Depreciation                               (3,799,133)                         42,590
                                                            (2,135,042)
Other operating expenses                   (25,666,196)      1,822,669

Other expenses		 (320,364)

Other income		1,795,780

Profit/(Loss) from operations		 5,442,594                 (6,345,645)     10,622,378      (3,648,302)
                                                          (2,050,478)                  –              –
Finance costs                        5     (1,530,554)

Profit/(Loss) before tax             6     3,912,040      (8,396,123)     10,622,378      (3,648,302)
Income tax expense                                                                     –              –
                                     7     (1,309,463)    (1,069,167)

Profit/(Loss) for the year,                               (9,465,290)     10,622,378      (3,648,302)
  representing total comprehensive
  income for the year		 2,602,577

Other comprehensive income,                (1,556,615)    (2,652,338)         –                                 –
  net of tax
Items that may be reclassified
  subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation

Items that will not be reclassified        306,288               336,324               –              –
  subsequently to profit or loss                                                       –              –
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain                                       10,622,378      (3,648,302)

Total other comprehensive                  (1,250,327)    (2,316,014)
  income for the year

Total comprehensive income                 1,352,250      (11,781,304)
  for the year		

Profit/(Loss) for the year                 2,602,577      (9,465,290)     10,622,378      (3,648,302)
  attributable to:
Owners of the Company		

Total comprehensive income                 1,352,250      (11,781,304)    10,622,378      (3,648,302)
  attributable to:
Owners of the Company		

Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary

  share attributable to Owners

  of the Company (sen):              8     0.68                  (3.84)

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements
Annual Report 2021         63  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                          STATEMENTS OF
                                                    FINANCIAL POSITION

                                                                                                AS AT 30 JUNE 2021

                                                        Group                             Company

		2021                                                         2020     2021                       2020
                                                                RM
                               Note                 RM                  RM                         RM

ASSETS                         9     78,903,357         80,107,876                   –                 –
Non-current assets                                                                   –                 –
Property, plant and equipment  10    6,134,880          6,381,625       89,255,250        65,977,960
Right-of-use assets                                                                  –        754,000
Investments in subsidiaries    11                   –          –                     –                 –
Other investment
Goodwill on consolidation      12                   –          754,000  89,255,250        66,731,960

                               13    7,037,480          7,037,480

		92,075,717                                            94,280,981

Current assets

Inventories                    14    52,116,219          47,949,242                    –               –
                                     33,363,772          28,603,055                    –               –
Trade receivables              15                                        15,137,566        2,355,660
                                      3,144,775            4,833,658           31,320          31,320
Other receivables              16        190,397             181,526         142,200             8,811

Tax recoverable		                    14,628,260            6,854,390     15,311,086        2,395,791

Cash and cash equivalents      17                        88,421,871     104,566,336       69,127,751

		103,443,423                                           182,702,852

TOTAL ASSETS		 195,519,140
                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD          64                Annual Report 2021

STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION

(Cont’d)

                                             Group                             Company

		2021                                              2020         2021                                           2020
                                                     RM
                          Note  RM                               RM                                             RM

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

Share capital             18    97,903,444   73,742,421      97,903,444        73,742,421
                                (4,936,494)  (3,379,879)                  –                 –
Translation reserve       19
                                34,437,474   31,528,609       3,498,080        (7,124,298)
Retained earnings/

  (accumulated losses)		

Total equity attributable to                 101,891,151     101,401,524       66,618,123
  Owners of the Company		127,404,424

Non-current liabilities   20    10,515,773   11,587,849          –                                              –
Borrowings
Deferred tax liabilities  21    1,507,883    1,525,409           –                                              –
Lease liabilities
                          22    773,965             935,167      –                                              –

                                12,797,621   14,048,425          –                                              –

Current liabilities       20    18,368,534    30,621,238                    –               –
Borrowings                                    19,590,710                    –               –
Trade payables            23    20,003,757    15,847,397        3,164,812       2,509,628
Other payables                                                              –               –
Rebate liability          24    15,858,606        265,009                   –               –
Lease liabilities                                 307,052                   –               –
Tax payable               25    582,488           131,870
                                                                3,164,812       2,509,628
                          22    332,817       66,763,276
                                                                3,164,812       2,509,628
                                170,893       80,811,701
                                                             104,566,336       69,127,751
		55,317,095                                 182,702,852

Total liabilities		68,114,716

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		195,519,140

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements
Annual Report 2021             65    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                STATEMENTS OF
                                                          CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                             FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2021

                                                             Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                          Non-distributable     Distributable

		                                          Share            Translation        Retained              Total
                                                                                                    Equity
                                     Note   Capital          Reserve            Earnings
                                                                                                        RM
		RM                                                         RM                 RM

Group                                                        (727,541)          40,657,575 113,672,455
At 1 July 2019		 73,742,421

Foreign currency translation

  difference for foreign operations                       –  (2,652,338)                 –      (2,652,338)
                                                                                336,324            336,324
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain  24(i)                –                  –

Total other comprehensive income                          –  (2,652,338)        336,324         (2,316,014)
  for the financial year
Loss for the financial year                               –                  –  (9,465,290)     (9,465,290)

Total comprehensive income                                –  (2,652,338)        (9,128,966) (11,781,304)
  for the financial year

At 30 June 2020		 73,742,421                                 (3,379,879)        31,528,609 101,891,151

At 1 July 2020		                            73,742,421       (3,379,879)        31,528,609 101,891,151

Foreign currency translation

  difference for foreign operations                       –  (1,556,615)                 –      (1,556,615)
                                                                         –      306,288            306,288
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain  24(i)                –

Total other comprehensive income

  for the financial year                                  –  (1,556,615)          306,288       (1,250,327)
                                                                         –      2,602,577       2,602,577
Profit for the financial year                             –

Total comprehensive income

  for the financial year                                  –  (1,556,615)        2,908,865       1,352,250

Transactions with Owners             18     24,161,023                   –                   –   24,161,023
  of the Company                                             (4,936,494)        34,437,474      127,404,424
Issuance of ordinary shares

At 30 June 2021		 97,903,444
                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD     66            Annual Report 2021

STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY

(Cont’d)

				 (Accumulated

				 Losses)/

				 Distributable

			                                                      Share               Retained              Total
                                                                                                 Equity
			 Capital                                                                  Earnings
                                                                                                     RM
		Note                                                   RM                      RM
                                                                                           70,266,425
Company                                                                                    (3,648,302)
                                                                                           66,618,123
At 1 July 2019			 73,742,421                                                 (3,475,996)
                                                                             (3,648,302)
Loss for the financial year, representing

  total comprehensive income for the financial year                       –

At 30 June 2020			 73,742,421                                                (7,124,298)

At 1 July 2020			 73,742,421                                                 (7,124,298)   66,618,123
                                                                             10,622,378    10,622,378
Profit for the financial year, representing

  total comprehensive income for the financial year                       –

Transactions with Owners of the Company              18  24,161,023                     –   24,161,023
Issuance of ordinary shares                                                  3,498,080     101,401,524

At 30 June 2021			 97,903,444

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements
Annual Report 2021           67        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                STATEMENTS OF
                                                                      CASH FLOWS

                                                            FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2021

                                                                Group                            Company

		2021                                                                 2020     2021                      2020
                                                                        RM
                                       Note                 RM                  RM                        RM

Cash Flows from                              3,912,040          (8,396,123)     10,622,378       (3,648,302)
  Operating Activities
Profit/(loss) before tax		

Adjustments for:

  Allowance for expected

   credit loss on:

  - Trade receivables                                       –   1,357,624                     –             –
                                                                  170,000                     –             –
  - Other receivables                                       –
                                                                2,257,154                     –             –
  Allowance for inventories
                                                                3,304,198                     –             –
   obsolescences                                            –
                                                                  272,248                     –             –
  Depreciation of property,                                       104,000                     –    104,000

   plant and equipment                       3,371,632              39,000           (42,590)        39,000

  Depreciation of right-of-use                                   (125,014)                    –             –

   assets                                    427,496                       –                  –  3,055,000
                                                                2,050,478                     –             –
  Fair value loss on other investment                       –                                 –
                                                                 (150,753)                    –         (102)
  (Gain)/Loss on disposal of other                                432,403                                   –
                                                                                              –
 inv  estment		(42,590)                                                    1                                –
                                                                                              –
  Gain on disposal of property,                                  (198,386)                                  –
                                                                                              –
   plant and equipment                       (147,981)           (845,708)                    –             –
                                                                  389,114                                   –
  Impairment loss on investment                                                 10,579,788
                                                                                                  (450,404)
   in subsidiary                                            –                                 –
                                                                                (11,645,214)                –
  Interest expense                           1,530,554                                              (21,762)
                                                                                    655,184         (38,187)
  Interest income                            (111,209)
                                                                                    (410,242)     (510,353)
  Inventories written off                    658,300                                          –          102
                                                                                              –             –
  Property, plant and equipment                                                               –             –
                                                                                              –             –
   written off                                              –
                                                                                    (410,242)     (510,251)
  Reversal of expected credit losses

   on trade receivables                      (15,517)

  Reversal of allowance for

   inventories obsolescences                 (658,300)

  Unrealised loss on foreign exchange        294,589

Operating profit/(loss) before               9,219,014                 660,236
  changes in working capital		

Changes in working capital:

  Inventories                                (5,671,749)           (619,332)
                                                                13,495,298
  Receivables		 (4,600,840)
                                                                 5,578,340
  Payables		2,377,052

Cash from/(used in) operations		             1,323,477          19,114,542
  Interest received                             111,209             150,753
  Interest paid
  Tax refund                                 (1,530,554)        (2,050,478)
  Tax paid                                         5,338            712,578

                                             (1,296,064)        (1,024,671)

Net cash (used in)/from                                         16,902,724
  operating activities		 (1,386,594)
                                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   68              Annual Report 2021

STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS

(Cont’d)

                                                                Group                             Company

		2021                                                                 2020          2021                  2020

                                   Note                    RM          RM            RM                    RM

Cash Flows from

  Investing Activities

Acquisition of property,

  plant and equipment              9(i)        (2,965,140)      (17,547,521)                   –           –
                                                                              –  (24,413,982)              –
Advances to subsidiary                                     –                                               –
                                                                    432,991                    –  489,000
Proceeds from disposal of                                                            796,590
                                                                    489,000                       489,000
  property, plant and equipment                527,650                           (23,617,392)

Proceeds from disposal of

  other investments		796,590

Net cash (used in)/from                                         (16,625,530)
  investing activities		 (1,640,900)

Cash Flows from                        (ii)                  –              –                 –   10,434
  Financing Activities             (ii),(iii)  (10,321,131)     (5,891,739)                   –          –
Repayment from subsidiaries
Net drawdown of borrowings                     24,161,023                   –    24,161,023              –
Proceeds from issuance of
  ordinary shares                                  (319,380)      (228,682)                   –          –
Payment for the principal portion
  of lease liabilities

Net cash from/(used in)

  financing activities		 13,520,512                             (6,120,421)      24,161,023       10,434

						

		

Net increase/(decrease) in cash

  and cash equivalents		10,493,018                              (5,843,227)      133,389          (10,817)

Cash and cash equivalents at

  beginning of the financial year		            3,373,430        9,161,765            8,811        19,628

Effect of exchange rate changes

  on cash and bank balances                    (110,171)               54,892        –                     –

Cash and cash equivalents at

  end of the financial year        (i)         13,756,277       3,373,430        142,200                   8,811

						

		

(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following:-

                                                                Group                             Company

		2021                                                                 2020          2021                  2020

                                   Note                    RM          RM            RM                    RM

Cash and bank balances             17          12,500,887       3,677,031        142,200                   8,811
Fixed deposit with
  licensed bank                    17          350,000          1,065,107                 –                      –
Short-term fund                                                 2,112,252                 –                      –
                                   17          1,777,373

			                                            14,628,260       6,854,390        142,200                   8,811
                                                  (871,983)     (3,480,960)               –                      –
Less: Bank overdrafts              20

			                                            13,756,277       3,373,430        142,200                   8,811
Annual Report 2021  69  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                    STATEMENTS OF
                                                                         CASH FLOWS

                                                                                       (Cont’d)

(ii) Reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:

					 Borrowings

					 (excluding bank	Lease

					 overdrafts)                                                                                         liabilities

					RM                                                                                                         RM

Group

2021				

At 1 July 2020				                                                  38,728,127                            1,242,219
                                                                                                            187,871
Additions                                                                                        –
                                                                                                           (319,380)
Repayment, representing net changes in cash flow                                                               (3,928)

  from financing activities				 (10,321,131)

Translation reserve				 (394,672)

At 30 June 2021				                                                 28,012,324                            1,106,782

2020

At 1 July 2019				                                                  35,321,388                              653,939
                                                                                                            815,011
Additions				 9,100,000
                                                                                                           (228,682)
Repayment, representing net changes in cash flow                                                               1,951

  from financing activities				                                     (5,891,739)                           1,242,219

Translation reserve				 198,478

At 30 June 2020				                                                 38,728,127

(iii) Reconciliation of cash flows for lease as lessee:

		Group

				2021                                                                                                        2020

		 		RM                                                                                                         RM

Included in net cash from operating activities:                                                   30,887         30,294
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities				                                               717,796        885,148
Payment relating to short term lease rental and low value assets		

Included in net cash used in financing activities:                                               319,380        228,682
Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities			

Total cash outflow for lease liabilities				                        1,068,063                             1,144,124

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements
                             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD               70  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

– 30 JUNE 2021

1. CORPORATE INFORMATION

        The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main Market
        of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

        The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 125, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
        Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah.

        The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 11.
        There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
        financial year.

        The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution dated 8
        October 2021.

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION

(a) Statement of compliance

The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and
the requirements of Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the preparation
of the financial statements

(i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year

The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that are
mandatory as follows:-

Amendments to MFRS 3         Definition of a Business

Amendments to MFRS 4         Insurance Contracts (Extension of the Temporary

                               Exemption from Applying MFRS 9)

Amendments to MFRS 9         Interest rate Benchmark Reform

  and MFRS 7

Amendments to MFRS 101       Definition of Material

  and MFRS 108

Amendments to MFRS 16        Covid-19 - Related Rent Concessions

Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRSs

The adoption of the above pronouncements did not have any significant effect on the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company.
Annual Report 2021  71  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)

(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted

The Group and the Company have not adopted the following accounting pronouncements that have
been issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not yet effective for the
Group and the Company:

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021

Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 7                 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
  MFRS 4 and MFRS 16

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 April 2021

Amendments to MFRS 16                        Covid-19 - Related Rent Concession beyond
                                               30 June 2021

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022

Amendments to MFRS 3                         Reference to the Conceptual Framework

Amendments to MFRS 116                       Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before

                                               Intended Use

Amendments to MFRS 137                       Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract

Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023

MFRS 17                                      Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17                        Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 101                       Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101                       Disclosure of Accounting Policies
  and MFRS Practice Statement 2
Amendments to MFRS 108                       Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112                       Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities
                                               arising from a Single Transaction

Effective date to be announced

Amendments to MFRS 10                        Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
  and MFRS 128                                 Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture

The Group and the Company will adopt the above accounting pronouncements when they become
effective in the respective financial periods. These accounting pronouncements are not expected to have
any effect to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company upon their initial application.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  72  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

        (b) Basis of measurement

                The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention except for those as disclosed
                in the accounting policy notes.

        (c) Functional and presentation currency

                These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency.

                All financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest RM, unless otherwise stated.

        (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements

                The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s and the
                Company’s result of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures. Certain of these accounting
                policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and subjective judgements and the use
                of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change.
                Directors exercise their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting
                policies.

                Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
                statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies and reported
                amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and underlying
                assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant factors, including
                expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results
                may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal
                the estimated results.

                The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at the end of
                the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of
                assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.

                (i) Impairment of non-financial assets

                        When the recoverable amount of an asset is determined based on the estimate of the value-in-use of the
                        cash-generating unit to which the asset is allocated, the management is required to make an estimate
                        of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to apply a suitable discount
                        rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.

                (ii) Impairment of goodwill

                        Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This requires
                        management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill
                        is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash
                        flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates estimated and
                        discount rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference will impact the
                        carrying value of goodwill.
Annual Report 2021  73  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

        (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)

                (iii) Impairment of financial assets

                        The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with its debt
                        instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there
                        has been a significant increase in credit risk.

                        For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires
                        expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the trade receivables.

                        For other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries, the Group and the Company apply the
                        approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to measure the allowance
                        for impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the probability of default occurring
                        within the next 12 months considering the loss given default of that financial asset.

                (iv) Write-off of inventories

                        Reviews are made periodically by management on damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
                        These reviews required judgements and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates could result in
                        revisions to the valuation of inventories.

                (v)	Provision for slow moving inventories

                        Reviews are made periodically by management on slow-moving inventories. These reviews required
                        judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates could result in revisions to the valuation
                        of inventories.

                (vi) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries

                        Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment annually in accordance with its accounting policy
                        whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.

                        Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
                        by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions and
                        judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in assumptions
                        could significantly affect the carrying value of investment in subsidiaries.

                (vii) Defined benefit plan

                        The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the present
                        value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making
                        assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability rate and resignation
                        rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rate,
                        management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market yield on government bond which
                        sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.

                        The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 24(i).
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  74  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

        The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
        statements.

        (a) Basis of consolidation

                Consolidation

                The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
                as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation of the consolidated
                financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies
                are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and
                only if the Company has all the following:

                (i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant power
                        activities of the investee);

                (ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
                (iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.

                When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company considers the
                following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power
                over the investee:

                (i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the
                        other vote holders;

                (ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
                (iii)		Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
                (iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current

                        ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns
                        at previous shareholders’ meetings.

                Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the
                Company loses control of the subsidiary.

                Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.

                Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over
                the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interest and
                the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
                The resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.

                When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are compared to
                the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying amount of allocated
                goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised as gain or loss on disposal.
Annual Report 2021  75  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

                Business combination

                Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
                measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the
                amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis
                whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share
                of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction cost incurred are expensed and included in administrative
                expenses.
 
                Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition
                date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or
                liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in profit or loss or a change to other comprehensive
                income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement
                is accounted for within equity.

                When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate
                classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent
                conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by
                the acquiree.

                If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously
                held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.

                Business combinations under common control are accounted using the predecessor method of merger
                accounting where the profit or loss and other comprehensive income include the results of each of the combining
                entities from the earliest date presented or from the date when these entities came under the control of the
                common controlling party (if later).

                The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the
                perspective of the common controlling party, or the combining entities if the common controlling party does
                not prepare consolidated financial statements.

                The difference in cost of acquisition over the aggregate carrying value of the assets and liabilities of the
                combining entities as of the date of the combination is taken to equity. Transaction cost for the combination
                is recognised in the profit or loss.

                Similar treatment applies in the Company’s separate financial statements when assets and liabilities representing
                the underlying businesses under common control are directly acquired by the Company. In accounting for
                business combinations in the Company’s separate financial statements, the excess of the cost of acquisition
                over the aggregate carrying amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the combinations is taken to
                equity.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  76  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

                Business combination (cont’d)

                Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and
                the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
                assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
                is recognised in profit or loss.

                After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose
                of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to
                each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of
                whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.

                Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed
                of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation
                when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based
                on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.

                In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment
                losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal proceeds and their carrying
                amounts is included in the profit or loss.

                Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
                transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
                statements.

        (b) Foreign currency

                (i) Foreign currency transactions

                        In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the
                        entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using the exchange
                        rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies at
                        the reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the exchange rates on the reporting date.
                        Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the reporting date except
                        for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate
                        at the date that the fair value was determined.

                        Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of monetary
                        items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences arising on monetary
                        items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.
Annual Report 2021  77  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (b) Foreign currency (cont’d)

                (ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia

                        The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different from the
                        presentation currency (RM) of the consolidated financial statements are translated into RM as follows:-

                        • Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate prevailing
                                at the reporting date;

                        • Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the year, which approximates
                                the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

                        • All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.

                        Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to profit or loss when control, joint
                        control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.

                        On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of the subsidiary
                        is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the cumulative translation
                        differences is reclassified to profit or loss in respect of all other partial disposals.

        (c) Revenue and other income recognition

                Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e.
                when the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to
                the customer.

                A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct goods or
                services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is
                explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business practices.

                Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange
                for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf
                of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due
                to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar items, the Group estimates the
                amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the expected value or the most likely outcome.
                If the contract with customer contains more than one performance obligation, the amount of consideration
                is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or
                services promised in the contract.

                The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
                cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration
                is subsequently resolved.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  78  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (c) Revenue and other income recognition (cont’d)

                The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control
                over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:

                - The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance
                        as the Group performs;

                - The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
                        or enhanced; or

                - The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an
                        enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.

                Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which
                the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.

                Rebate liability

                A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable) from the
                customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer.
                The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs its obligation under the contracts.

                The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and discounts
                are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration for the expected
                future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method. The Group then applies the
                requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and recognises a refund liability for the
                expected future rebates.

                Other revenue earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:

                Dividend income

                Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

                Interest income

                Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

                Rental income

                Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.

                Wages subsidy

                Government grant/assistance received from Government on wages subsidy is recognised on monthly basis
                over the qualified period under the criteria set by the Government.
Annual Report 2021  79  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (d) Employee benefits

                (i) Short term employee benefits

                        Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the financial
                        year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term accumulating
                        compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are rendered by employees
                        that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short term non-accumulating
                        compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when absences occur.

                        The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount expected
                        to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.

                (ii) Defined contribution plans

                        As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the state pension scheme, the
                        Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”). Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once
                        the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.

                (iii) Defined benefit plans

                        The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for each
                        plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in
                        the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised
                        past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield
                        at the end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency
                        (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The
                        calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.

                        When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any
                        unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any
                        future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to calculate the
                        present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that
                        apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the
                        life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.

                        When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service
                        by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the
                        benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised
                        immediately in profit or loss.

                        The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans in other
                        comprehensive income and all expenses related to defined benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit
                        or loss.

                        The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when
                        the curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in
                        the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation and any related
                        actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been recognised.

                (iv) Voluntary separation scheme

                        Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal
                        retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
                        The Group recognises termination benefits when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those
                        benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are
                        measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  80  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (e) Borrowing costs

                Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are recognised in profit
                or loss using the effective interest method.

                Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily
                take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost
                of those assets.

                The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
                for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
                the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases
                when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are
                interrupted or completed.

        (f) Income taxes

                Current tax

                Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected amount
                payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by
                the reporting date, and any adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside
                profit or loss, the related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.

                Deferred tax

                Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the tax base of
                assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not recognised
                if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, which is
                not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or
                loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are
                realised or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
                enacted by the reporting date.

                Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary differences
                relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is probable that future
                taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.

                Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
                probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at
                each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit
                will be available for the assets to be utilised.

                Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
                Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other comprehensive
                income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is adjusted against goodwill
                on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s
                identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the acquisition cost.
Annual Report 2021  81  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(g)	Leases

As a lessee

The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or site on
which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated
useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:

Short term leasehold lands                   40 remaining years
Long term leasehold lands                    52 remaining years
Hostel rental
Office rental                                               3 years
Factory rental                                              6 years
Motor vehicle                                             6.5 years
                                                            4 years

In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain
remeasurements of the lease liability. The Group applies MFRS 136 to determine whether a right-of-use asset
is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment loss as described in Note 3(o) (ii).

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the commencement
date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Lease payments included in the measurement
of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease payments, amount expected to be payable
under a residual value guarantee, and exercise price under an extension option that the Group is reasonably
certain to exercise.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group change its assessment
of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.

Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight-
line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.

As a lessor

Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of
an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over
the lease terms and is included in other revenue in the statement of profit or loss due to its operating nature.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount
of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents
are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.

(h) Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for
own shares held.
                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  82              Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(i)	Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses.

(i) Recognition and measurement

        Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and any other
        costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of replacing
        component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of
        the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and
        direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting
        policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as
        incurred.
 
        When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
        accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits
are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and
equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of
the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.

(ii) Subsequent costs

The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow
to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
plant and equipment are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.

(iii) Depreciation

Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that
asset, then that component is depreciated separately.

Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated useful
lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following annual rates:-

Buildings                                                                               2%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                                         5% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment                                       5% - 20%
Motor vehicles
                                                                                      20%

Freehold land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.

Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until they are
no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these property, plant and
equipment.
Annual Report 2021  83  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (j) Capital work-in-progress

                Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes borrowing
                cost incurred during the period of construction.

                No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the cost will
                be transferred to property, plant and equipment.

        (k) Intangible assets

                Goodwill

                Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase consideration
                and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the
                subsidiary companies at the date of acquisition.

                Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
                Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when indication of impairment
                exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.

                Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the computation
                of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
                income.

        (l) Inventories

                Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

                The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred
                in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.

                Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of
                completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

                Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:

                - cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a weighted
                        average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).

                - cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of production
                        overheads.

        (m) Cash and cash equivalents

                Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposit with licensed bank and short-
                term fund that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of
                changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented
                net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  84  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (n) Financial instruments

                (i) Initial recognition and measurement

                        A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statement of financial position when, and only
                        when, the Group or the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

                        A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or a financial
                        liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss,
                        transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance. A trade receivable without
                        a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price. 

                        An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract is
                        not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to
                        the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is not measured at
                        fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised
                        separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.

                (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement

                        The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:

                        Financial assets

                        Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified subsequent
                        to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company change its business model for managing
                        financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first
                        reporting period following the change of the business model.

                        Amortised cost

                        Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model whose objective
                        is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms give rise on specified dates
                        to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The
                        financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition,
                        these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The amortised
                        cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment
                        are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit or loss. Interest
                        income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount except for credit
                        impaired financial assets [see note 3(o)(i)] where the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised
                        cost.

                        Fair value through profit or loss

                        All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income
                        are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a
                        derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group or
                        the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be
                        measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income as at fair value through
                        profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise
                        arise. Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at their
                        fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in the profit or
                        loss.

                        All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are subject to impairment
                        assessment [see note 3(o)(i)].

 
Annual Report 2021  85  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (n) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)

                        The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows: (cont’d)

                        Financial liabilities

                        Amortised cost

                        Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured
                        at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

                        Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gains
                        or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.

                (iii) Offsetting

                        Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of
                        financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently have a legally enforceable
                        right to set off the amounts and they intend either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset
                        and liability simultaneously.

                (iv) Financial guarantee contracts

                        A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
                        reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
                        accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

                        Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at
                        higher of:

                        • the amount of the loss allowance; and

                        • the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
                                in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

                        Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.

                (v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets

                        A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
                        require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in
                        the marketplace concerned.

                        A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using
                        trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:

                        (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and

                        (b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition
                                of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  86  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (n) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                (vi) Derecognition

                        A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the cash
                        flows from the financial asset expire or the financial asset is transferred to another party without retaining
                        control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. On derecognition of a financial asset, the
                        difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received (including any new
                        asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised
                        in equity is recognised in profit or loss.

                        A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified in the
                        contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference
                        between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and
                        the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised
                        in profit or loss.

        (o) Impairment

                (i) Financial assets

                        The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on financial
                        assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit losses are
                        a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                        Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following bases:-

                        (i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the
                                12 months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is
                                less than 12 months); or

                        (ii) Lifetime ECLs- represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over the expected
                                life of a financial instrument or contract asset.

                        The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit
                        risk.

                        Simplified approach - trade receivables

                        The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables as
                        permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from
                        initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated
                        using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss experience,
                        adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment
                        of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time
                        value of money where applicable.
Annual Report 2021  87  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (o) Impairment (cont’d)

                (i) Financial assets (cont’d)

                        General approach - other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts

                        The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
                        instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at an
                        amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.

                        At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial instrument
                        has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased significantly since initial
                        recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether the
                        credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating
                        ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and
                        available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and
                        analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
                        and including forward looking information, where available.

                        If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the financial
                        instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant credit risk since initial recognition, loss
                        allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECL.

                        The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes
                        when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full, without
                        recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).

                        The Group and the Company consider a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of
                        the loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors and the Group and the Company in full,
                        without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).
                        The Group and the Company only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken
                        into account by adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.

                        The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which
                        the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                        Credit impaired financial assets

                        At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised
                        cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental
                        impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

                        Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following events:

                        - Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
                        - A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than 90 days

                                past due);
                        - The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial

                                difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider
                                (e.g the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company on terms that the Group
                                and the Company would not consider otherwise);
                        - It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
                                or
                        - The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties. 
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  88  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (o) Impairment (cont’d)

                (i) Financial assets (cont’d)

                        Write-off policy

                        The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there
                        is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company determine
                        that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
                        repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be
                        subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for
                        recovery of amounts due. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.

                (ii) Non-financial assets

                        The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
                        reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists
                        then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

                        An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds
                        its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the
                        asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly against any
                        revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the amount
                        in the revaluation surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset
                        group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups.

                        The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value in use and its
                        fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
                        their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
                        value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

                        Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
                        impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
                        recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case
                        it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that
                        would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.

                        An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.

                        An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary exceeds
                        its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
                        present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the investment including
                        the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is recognised in profit
                        or loss.
Annual Report 2021  89  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

        (p) Equity instruments

                An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and of the
                Company after deducting all of their liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.

                Ordinary shares

                Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction
                costs. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the
                period in which they are declared.

        (q)	Provisions

                A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation
                that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle
                the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
                that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The
                unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.

        (r) Operating segments

                An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
                earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
                the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief
                operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make decisions
                about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
                information is available.

        (s) Fair value measurements

                Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as
                the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
                market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
                or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the
                most advantageous market.

                For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
                economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
                that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

                When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as
                possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
                valuation technique as follows:

                Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can
                              access at the measurement date.

                Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
                              either directly or indirectly.

                Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

                The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change
                in circumstances that caused the transfers.
                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD      90          Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

4. REVENUE

                                   Group                             Company

		2021                                    2020               2021             2020
		RM                                       RM
                                                             RM               RM

Revenue from contract           160,539,264 149,245,245      –                –
  with customers
Sales of manufactured products

Revenue from other source       –                    –   11,000,000           –
Dividend income

                                160,539,264 149,245,245  11,000,000           –

Sales of manufactured products

The Group sells a range of manufactured canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of manufactured
products are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being when the
customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.

Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 28.

Dividend income

Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the dividend is established.

5. FINANCE COSTS

		Group

				2021                                                                      2020

		 		RM                                                                       RM

Interest expense:-

  - Term loans				                                       542,153       423,374
                                                         124,127         80,799
  - Bank overdrafts 				                                 709,367
                                                         124,020     1,310,696
  - Bankers’ acceptances        			                                    205,315
                                                          30,887         30,294
  - Revolving credit				

  - Lease liabilities				

					 1,530,554                                                      2,050,478
Annual Report 2021   91        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                        (Cont’d)

6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX

Profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-

                                                                     Group                       Company

		2021                                                                      2020     2021                 2020
		RM                                                                         RM
                                                                                     RM                   RM

Auditors’ remuneration:

- Current year		                     221,581                             212,094     55,000      52,000
                                                                                     20,000      15,000
Non-audit fees:                                                           15,000

- Current year		20,000                                                1,357,624
                                                                         170,000
Allowance for expected
                                                                      2,257,154
  credit loss on:
                                                                      3,304,198
- Trade receivables                                 –                    272,248             –              –
                                                                         104,000             –              –
- Other receivables                                 –
                                                                          39,000             –              –
Allowance for inventories
                                                                                  –          –              –
  obsolescences                                     –                    432,403             –              –
                                                                                             –     104,000
Depreciation of property,                                                568,579
                                                                         316,569     (42,590)        39,000
  plant and equipment                3,371,632
                                                                          71,814             –   3,055,000
Depreciation of right-of-use assets  427,496                         22,079,295              –              –

Fair value loss on other investment                 –                    226,600
                                                                         389,114
(Gain)/loss on disposal of
                                                                        (125,014)
  other investment		(42,590)                                            (150,753)

Impairment loss on investment                                             (12,500)

  in subsidiary                                     –                   (198,386)

Inventories written off              658,300                            (845,708)
                                                                          (91,200)
Short-term lease rental

  and low value assets:

- Premises                           396,696                                                  –           –
                                                                                              –           –
- Equipments                         321,100                                                  –           –
                                                                                              –           –
Realised loss on foreign exchange    25,775
                                                                                     184,510     226,600
Employees benefit expenses (Note a)  20,652,871                                               –           –

Non-executive Directors’ fees                                                                 –           –
                                                                                              –       (102)
  and allowances		184,510                                                                     –
                                                                                                          –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange  294,589                                                  –
                                                                                                          –
Gain on disposal of property,                                                                 –
                                                                                              –           –
  plant and equipment                (147,981)                                                            –

Interest income                      (111,209)

Rental income                        (54,600)

Reversal of expected credit

  losses on trade receivables        (15,517)

Reversal of allowance for

  inventories obsolescences          (658,300)

Wages subsidy (Note b)               (739,200)
                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  92              Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (cont’d)

(a) Employees benefit expenses comprise:-

		Group

				2021                                                                        2020

		 		RM                                                                         RM

Staff costs                                                     18,436,864      18,847,317
Salaries, wages, bonus, allowances and overtime			                           –      397,399
Voluntary separation scheme                                                         372,354
Defined benefit plan				                                            334,918         791,011
Contributions to defined contribution plan			                       571,151         800,638
Social security contributions				                                   729,500

					 20,072,433                                                                21,208,719

Directors of the Company                                        510,971             749,700
Executive Directors                                              68,544             119,952
Salaries and other emoluments				                                    923
Contributions to defined contribution plan			                                             924
Social security contributions				
                                                                                    870,576
					 580,438
                                                                                22,079,295
Total staff costs				20,652,871

(b) Wages subsidy
        Represents grant received from the Malaysian Government in relation to wages subsidy for eligible employees.

7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE

		Group

				2021                                                                        2020

		 		RM                                                                         RM

Current income tax:                                             1,326,989       1,088,365
- Foreign tax				

Underprovision in prior year:                                       –           170
- Malaysian tax

					1,326,989                                                                  1,088,535

Deferred tax (Note 21):            			                             (17,526)        (19,368)
Reversal of temporary differences                               1,309,463       1,069,167

Income tax expense for the financial year 			

Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% of the estimated assessable profit for
the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Annual Report 2021  93            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                                          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                             (Cont’d)

7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (cont’d)

The reconciliations from the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and the Company’s tax expense
are as follows:

                                                          Group                         Company

		2021                                                           2020    2021                    2020
		RM                                                              RM
                                                                         RM                      RM

Profit/(loss) before tax		            3,912,040           (8,396,123)    10,622,378     (3,648,302)

Tax at the Malaysian statutory

  income tax rate of 24%		            938,900             (2,015,100)    2,549,400      (875,600)

Effect of different tax rates in                              57,400                 –            –
                                                             681,505        100,900     875,620
  other countries                     (90,300)              (262,508)    (2,650,300)
                                                          2,607,700                            (20)
Non-deductible expenses		606,392                                                     –            –
                                                                      –
Income not subject to tax		           (47,329)                                       –            –
                                                                   170
Deferred tax assets not recognised    711,300                                        –            –
                                                          1,069,167
Utilisation of previously unutilised                                                 –            –

  tax losses                          (809,500)

Underprovision of income tax

  in prior year                                        –

Income tax expense for the            1,309,463
  financial year

The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available for set-off
against future taxable profits as follows:-

		Group

				2021                                                                                         2020

		 		RM                                                                                          RM

Unutilised tax losses                                                    26,830,000     27,238,000
Unabsorbed capital allowances                                            20,919,000     16,330,000

					47,749,000                                                                         43,568,000

The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital
allowances carried forward.

The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval to offset
against future taxable profit.

Any unutilised tax losses in a year of assessment (“YA”) can only be allowed to carry forward up to a maximum of
7 consecutive years of assessment effective from YA 2019.
                              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                       94         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

8. EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE

Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) after tax
attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
financial year.

		Group

				2021                                                                                           2020

Basic earnings/(loss) per share:                                                        2,602,577  (9,465,290)
Profir/(loss) after tax attributable to the Owners
  of the Company (RM)				

Weighted average number of ordinary shares:         246,626,468                                    246,626,468
Number of ordinary shares at beginning              133,786,413                                                   –
  of the financial year				
Effect of ordinary shares issued                                                                   246,626,468

Weighted average number of ordinary shares
  at end of the financial year				380,412,881

Basic earnings/(loss) per share (sen)				                                                   0.68   (3.84)

There are no dilutive potential ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                       Annual Report 2021

				                                                                   Plant,  Furniture,
                                                                machinery
				                                                           and factory     fittings 		                          Capital
                                                                equipment                                   expenditure-
		                             Freehold 		                                     and office    Motor
                                                                          RM                                 in-progress
		                             land            Buildings                       equipment     vehicles                    RM  Total
                                                                                                                               RM
		                             RM              RM                              RM            RM

Group                          15,789,427      46,274,858      49,358,887      5,200,353     2,731,305      895,155          120,249,985                               95
2021                                        –       84,395      2,185,365        443,525        251,855               –         2,965,140
Cost                                        –               –               –             –                           –        (1,414,989)                             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
At 1 July 2020                              –                               –             –  (1,414,989)                                    –
Additions                                          852,719        (228,708)       (24,919)               –  (852,719)             (702,000)
Disposals                         (305,745)         (48,828)                                                 (42,436)
Reclassification                                                                                 (51,364)
Exchange differences

At 30 June 2021                15,483,682 47,163,144           51,315,544      5,618,959     1,516,807      – 121,098,136

								

Accumulated

 depreciation

At 1 July 2020                 –               8,576,415       27,174,826      2,906,650     1,484,218      –                40,142,109

Charge for the financial year  –               711,410         2,008,405       444,196       207,621        –                3,371,632

Disposals                      –               –               –               – (1,035,320)                –                (1,035,320)

Exchange differences           –               (42,140)        (175,777)       (23,500)      (42,225)       –                (283,642)               NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At 30 June 2021                –               9,245,685       29,007,454      3,327,346     614,294        –                42,194,779
                                                                                                                                               (Cont’d)
Net carrying amount            15,483,682 37,917,459           22,308,090      2,291,613     902,513        –                78,903,357
At 30 June 2021
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)                                                                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
				                                                                 Plant,   Furniture,
                                                              machinery                                                                       (Cont’d)
				                                                         and factory      fittings 		                          Capital
                                                              equipment                                    expenditure-
		                             Freehold 		                                    and office    Motor
                                                                        RM                                  in-progress
		                             land          Buildings                        equipment     vehicles                    RM  Total
                                                              43,440,503                                                      RM
		                             RM            RM                5,802,801      RM            RM
                                                                           –
Group (cont’d)                 9,685,719     32,573,500                    –  5,652,117     3,816,468       32,415           95,200,722
2020                           5,950,000     13,644,009                    –    313,819         62,976     873,916           26,647,521
Cost                                                              115,583                –                                    (1,026,528)
At 1 July 2019                            –               –                    (778,133)    (1,026,528)             –
Additions                                 –               –   49,358,887                 –    (142,799)             –            (920,932)
Disposals                                 –       32,415                          12,550                –  (32,415)                        –
Written off                      153,708          24,934                                        21,188      21,239
Reclassification                                                              5,200,353                                          349,202
Exchange differences                                                                        2,731,305      895,155
                                                                                                                            120,249,985
At 30 June 2020                15,789,427 46,274,858

Accumulated                    –             7,937,705       25,264,821       3,125,632     2,010,973      –                38,339,131                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
 depreciation
At 1 July 2019                 –             617,493         1,821,393        547,320       317,992        –                3,304,198
Charge for the financial year
Disposals                      –             –               –                –             (718,551)      –                (718,551)
Written off
Exchange differences           –             –               –                (778,133)     (142,798)      –                (920,931)

At 30 June 2020                –             21,217          88,612           11,831        16,602         –                138,262

                               –             8,576,415       27,174,826       2,906,650     1,484,218      –                40,142,109

Net carrying amount            15,789,427 37,698,443         22,184,061       2,293,703     1,247,087      895,155          80,107,876                                96
At 30 June 2020

                                                                                                                                                                      Annual Report 2021
Annual Report 2021  97  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

9. 	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

(i) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment are satisfied by the following:-

		Group

				2021                                                                              2020

		 		RM                                                                               RM

Cash					 2,965,140                                                                   17,547,521
                                                                                       9,100,000
Term loan                                                                          –

					 2,965,140                                                                       26,647,521

(iii) Certain freehold land and building with net carrying amount of RM18,982,656 (2020: RM19,248,628) are held
        as security for term loan facilities as disclosed in Note 20.
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS                                                                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
		Long term		 Short term
                                                                                                                         (Cont’d)
		                             leasehold		   leasehold      Hostel       Office    Factory      Motor
                                                             rental      rental      rental    vehicle
		                             land *        land                                        RM                Total
                                                                 RM          RM                     RM       RM
                               RM		 RM                                             544,982
                                                           313,119     403,995              –
Group                          1,471,964		   5,576,382     187,871              –           –  198,506     8,508,948
2021                                      –             –                       –                       –    187,871
Cost                                      –             –           –              544,982                      (9,255)
At 1 July 2020                                             500,990     403,995                   (9,255)
Additions                                                                                                  8,687,564
Exchange differences                                                                           189,251

At 30 June 2021                1,471,964		   5,576,382

Accumulated                    248,836		     1,722,684        8,698    16,833       83,843     46,429      2,127,323                             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
 Depreciation                   23,522		         96,552    120,029     67,333       83,843     36,217        427,496
At 1 July 2020                          –               –                                      (2,135)          (2,135)
Charge for the financial year                                       –         –             –
Exchange differences           272,358		     1,819,236                                         80,511      2,552,684
                                                           128,727     84,166      167,686
At 30 June 2021

Net Carrying Amount            1,199,606		   3,757,146     372,263     319,829     377,296     108,740     6,134,880
At 30 June 2021

                                                                                                                                                 98

                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2021
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)                                                                                                                               Annual Report 2021

		Long term		 Short term

		                                leasehold		   leasehold      Hostel                     Office    Factory       Motor
                                                                rental                    rental      rental    vehicle
		                                land *        land                                                      RM                    Total
                                                                    RM                        RM                      RM          RM
                                  RM		 RM                                                           544,982
                                                                       –                         –           –   95,928   7,689,256
Group (cont’d)                    1,471,964     5,576,382     313,119                   403,995              –   97,897     815,011                            99
2020                                         –             –                                                                   4,681
Cost                                         –             –           –                         –  544,982        4,681
At 1 July 2019                                                313,119                   403,995                 198,506   8,508,948
Additions
Exchange differences

At 30 June 2020                   1,471,964 		  5,576,382                                                                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

Accumulated                       225,084       1,624,894                            –         –           –     3,997    1,853,975
 Depreciation                      23,752 		        97,790                     8,698    16,833      83,843      41,332      272,248
At 1 July 2019                             –               –                                                                   1,100
Charge for the financial year                                                        –         –           –     1,100
Exchange differences              248,836 		    1,722,684                                                                 2,127,323
                                                                               8,698    16,833      83,843      46,429
At 30 June 2020

Net Carrying Amount               1,223,128 		  3,853,698     304,421                   387,162     461,139     152,077   6,381,625          NOTES TO THE
At 30 June 2020                                                                                                                          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

* Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.                                                          (Cont’d)
                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                           100         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)

The expenses charged to profit and loss during the financial year are as follows:-

		Group

				2021                                                                                           2020

		 		RM                                                                                            RM

Depreciation of right-of-use assets				                                             427,496        272,248
Interest expense on lease liabilities				                                            30,887         30,294
Expenses relating to short-term leases				
Expenses relating to leases of low value assets			                                  396,696        568,579
                                                                                    321,100        316,569

In prior financial year, the acquisition of right-of-use assets of motor vehicle amounted to RM97,897 was satisfied
by finance lease arrangement.

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

		Company

				2021                                                                                           2020

		 		RM                                                                                            RM

Unquoted shares, at cost              			                                           42,501,620     42,501,620
At beginning/end of the year

Less: Allowance for impairment loss                                                 (4,468,003)    (1,413,003)
        At beginning of the year				                                                            –  (3,055,000)
        Addition                                                                                   (4,468,003)
                                                                                                   38,033,617
At end of the year				                                                              (4,468,003)
                                                                                                                –
					38,033,617                                                                                    27,944,343
			                                                                                                27,944,343
                                                                                                   65,977,960
Capital contribution to subsidiaries

At beginning of the year                                                            27,944,343

Addition				23,277,290

At end of the year				                                                              51,221,633

Carrying amount at end of the year    			                                           89,255,250

Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents amounts due from subsidiaries which are non-trade in nature, unsecured
and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
As these amounts are in substance, represent additional investments in the subsidiaries, they are stated at cost less
accumulated impairment losses.
Annual Report 2021    101  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         (Cont’d)

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                                                      Effective

                                                 equity interest

                             Country of          2021  2020
                           incorporation
Name of company                                  %               %    Principal activities

Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia              100             100  Manufacture and

                                                                      export of canned

                                                                      food and drinks and

                                                                      investment holding

Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.      Malaysia              100             100  Trading of canned

                                                                      food, drinks and shelf

                                                                      stable convenience food

Fika Foods Corporation     Malaysia              100             100  Manufacture and
  Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                      distribution of frozen

                                                                      meat, ceased operation

                                                                      in June 2014

Summit Teamtrade (2011)    Malaysia              100             100  Manufacture of biscuit
  Sdn. Bhd.

P.T. Rex Canning*#         Indonesia             100             100  Manufacture and export

                                                                      of canned food

Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia              100             100  Trading of

                                                                      manufactured biscuit

Cinta Edar (Selatan)       Malaysia              100             100  Dormant
  Sdn. Bhd.@

Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd.        Malaysia              100             100  Dormant

Best Aqua Food Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia              100             100  Dormant

Fika Foods Marketing       Malaysia              100             100  Dormant
  Sdn. Bhd.@

Gainasia International     British Virgin        100             100  Dormant
  Limited*^
                           Islands

* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning.
^ The financial statements is reviewed for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ The Directors of the respective subsidiaries have approved to strike off these subsidiaries and is pending for

        submission to the Companies Commission of Malaysia pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016.
                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                102         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

12. OTHER INVESTMENT

                                               Group                                  Company

		2021                                                2020                    2021                        2020
		RM                                                   RM
                                                                              RM                          RM

At fair value through profit or loss

Quoted shares

At beginning of the year              754,000  1,386,000                 754,000      1,386,000
                                                (528,000)                (754,000)     (528,000)
Disposal		 (754,000)                            (104,000)                              (104,000)
                                                                                   –
Fair value loss                       –                                                 754,000
                                                                                   –
At end of the year                    –               754,000

The investments have quoted market price in an active market and hence, the fair value was derived based on the
market price of the quoted shares. The fair value of the investment is categorised at Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION

		Group

				2021                                                                                                  2020

		 		RM                                                                                                   RM

Cost                                  			                                11,378,743   11,378,743
  At beginning/end of the year

Less: Accumulated impairment loss

  At beginning/end of the year        			                                (4,341,263)  (4,341,263)

Carrying amount at end of the year    			                                7,037,480    7,037,480

Impairment testing for cash-generating unit (“CGU”) containing goodwill

Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-

		Group

				2021                                                                                                  2020

		 		RM                                                                                                   RM

Manufacturing of canned food          			                                7,037,480    7,037,480
Annual Report 2021  103  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)

        For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents the lowest
        level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.

        Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on value-in-use calculations determined by
        discounting future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget
        for 2022 and projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.

        The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:

        (i) Budgeted gross margin

                The budgeted gross margin is 15% (2020: 14% to 15%). Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
                preceding the start of the budget period. These are increased over the budget period for anticipated efficiency
                improvements.

        (ii) Weighted average growth rate

                The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 5% (2020: 4%). Pre-tax cash flows projections
                based on the most recent financial budgets approved by the management covering 5 years period based on
                the growth rate.

        (iii) Pre-tax discount rate

                A pre-tax discount rate of 10% (2020: 10%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
                amount of the CGUs. This is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to
                evaluate future investment proposals.

        Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably possible
        changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in determining
        the recoverable amounts of the cash-generating unit. Based on the sensitivity analysis performed, management
        concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable
        amounts of the units to be materially below their carrying amounts.
                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  104           Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

14. INVENTORIES

		Group

				2021                                                                               2020

		 		RM                                                                                RM

At cost:

  Raw materials				                                                      21,973,426    21,137,187
                                                                                       20,320,756
  Manufactured inventories     			                                       20,752,337
                                                                                        7,531,818
  Packing materials            			                                       9,850,807      1,303,765

  Consumables                  			1,326,858                                                101,225

  Stocks in transit                                                           –

					 53,903,428                                                                       50,394,751

Less: Allowance for obsolescences - raw materials,

    packaging and consumables

At beginning of the year       			                                       (2,445,509)   (1,034,063)
                                                                                       (2,257,154)
Addition                                                                      –
                                                                                           845,708
Reversal                       			658,300
                                                                                       (2,445,509)
At end of the year             			                                       (1,787,209)
                                                                                       47,949,242
				                                                                     52,116,219

Inventories recognised in cost of sales 			                              106,453,886   103,040,229
Inventories written off				                                                   658,300       432,403

15. TRADE RECEIVABLES

		Group

				2021                                                                               2020

		 		RM                                                                                RM

External parties				36,083,834                                                         32,130,693

Less: Allowance for expected credit losses

At beginning of the year				                                             (3,527,638)   (2,368,444)
                                                                                       (1,357,624)
Additions                                                                     –
                                                                                                    –
Written off                                                              792,059           198,386

Reversal				 15,517                                                                               44

Exchange differences                                                          –        (3,527,638)

At end of the year				                                                   (2,720,062)   28,603,055

					33,363,772

The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 150 days (2020: 30 to 150 days). Other
credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.

Trade receivables amounted to RM8,239,730 (2020: RM8,467,774) are held as security for bankers’ acceptances
facilities as disclosed in Note 20.
Annual Report 2021    105            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                 (Cont’d)

16. OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                              Group                           Company

		2021                                                               2020     2021                     2020
                                                                      RM
                                     Note                 RM                  RM                       RM

Sundry receivables                          4,017,124         6,058,096       –                        –
  Less: Allowance for
	  impairment loss

  At beginning of  the year                 (2,535,767)       (2,424,699)                  –             –
  Written off                                           –         58,932                   –             –
  Additions                                             –                                  –             –
                                                                (170,000)
                                                                                           –             –
  At end of the year                        (2,535,767)       (2,535,767)
                                                                                           –             –
                                            1,481,357         3,522,329                    –             –
                                                                                   20,648         50,724
Deposits                                    305,615                  521,552
Prepayments                                                                                –             –
Amount due from                      (i)    1,338,803                789,777
  related party                                                               15,116,918      2,304,936
Amounts due from                     (ii)   19,000                   –
  subsidiaries                                                                15,137,566      2,355,660
                                     (iii)                –          –

			3,144,775                                                  4,833,658

(i) Included in prepayments of the Group consists of advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM671,225
        (2020: RM110,908).

(ii) Relates to rental receivable owing by Directors’ related company.

(iii) These amounts are unsecured, non-trade in nature, interest free and are receivable on demand.

17. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

                                                              Group                           Company

		2021                                                               2020     2021                     2020
                                                                      RM
                                     Note                 RM                  RM                       RM

Short-term fund                      (i)     1,777,373        2,112,252       –                        –

Fixed deposit with                              350,000       1,065,107
                                            12,500,887        3,677,031
  licensed bank                      (ii)                                              –                     –
                                                                              142,200                  8,811
Cash and bank balances		

			                                         14,628,260        6,854,390       142,200                  8,811

(i) Short-term fund represents investment in highly liquid money market instrument and deposits with financial
        institution in Malaysia. The short-term fund is subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. The distribution
        income from this fund is tax exempted and is being treated as interest income by the Group.

        The effective interest rate of the short-term fund is at 3.12 % (2020: 3.45%) per annum.

(ii) The effective interest rate of the fixed deposit is at a fixed rate of 2.13% (2020: 3.09% to 3.34%) per annum
        with maturity period of 6 months (2020: 3 months).
                                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD            106         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

18. SHARE CAPITAL

		                                                   Group and Company
			2021
			Unit                                              2020                   2021           2020
                                                                                             RM
                                                     Unit                   RM
                                                                                   73,742,421
Ordinary shares                         246,626,468  246,626,468       73,742,421               –
Issued and fully paid                   246,626,468                 –  24,161,023
At beginning of the year		                                                         73,742,421
Issuance of ordinary shares                          246,626,468       97,903,444

At end of the year		 493,252,936

During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid up ordinary shares from RM73,742,421 to
RM97,903,444 by way of the issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10 per share
for working capital purposes, repayment of bank borrowings, upgrade of machineries and netted off with issuance
expenses of RM501,624.

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual interests.

19. TRANSLATION RESERVE

        The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
        statements of foreign subsidiaries.

20. BORROWINGS

		Group

				2021                                                                           2020

		 		RM                                                                            RM

Non-current                                                            10,515,773  11,587,849
  Term loans (secured)				

Current

  Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				                                        871,983    3,480,960
                                                                       5,070,000   13,586,000
  Bankers’ acceptances - unsecured 			                                 8,239,730
                                                                       3,000,000    8,467,774
 		                - secured            			                            1,186,821    4,000,000
                                                                                    1,086,504
  Revolving credit (unsecured)          			
                                                                                   30,621,238
  Term loans (secured)				
                                                                                   42,209,087
					18,368,534

					28,884,307

Maturity profile of borrowings:

On demand or within 1 year              			                            18,368,534  30,621,238
More than 1 year and less than 5 years  			                             4,552,356   4,920,999
More than 5 years                       			                             5,963,417   6,666,850

					28,884,307                                                                    42,209,087
Annual Report 2021   107    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                    (Cont’d)

20. BORROWINGS (cont’d)

Term loans

		Group

				2021                                                                                            2020

		 		RM                                                                                             RM

Term loan 1(1)				2,344,764                                                                         2,708,309
                                                                                                      873,994
Term loan 2(1)				761,015
                                                                                                    9,092,050
Term loan 3(2)              			                  8,596,815

					11,702,594                                                                                     12,674,353

(1) Conventional term loan
(2) Islamic term loan

Repayment of term loans:

  Within one year           			                  1,186,821                                           1,086,504
                                                 1,235,813                                           1,144,025
  More than 1 year and less than 2 years 			     3,316,542                                           3,552,845
                                                 5,963,418                                           6,890,979
  More than 2 years and less than 5 years			
                                                                                                    12,674,353
  More than 5 years         			

					11,702,594

Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:

		Group

				2021                                                                                            2020

		 		%                                                                                              %

Bank overdrafts				                               BLR* + 1.5                                         BLR* + 1.5
                                                  3.86 - 4.90                                        3.95 - 5.70
Bankers’ acceptances        			                                                                      4.82 - 5.78
                                                           4.13
Revolving credit            			                                                                       BLR* - 1.5
                                                   BLR* - 1.5                                       BFR# - 1.25
Term loans:			                                   BFR# - 1.25

- Conventional				

- Islamic				

*BLR - Base Lending Rate
#BFR - Base Financing Rate

Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

(i) charge over certain property, plant and equipment of the Group as disclosed in Note 9;
(ii) a corporate guarantee of the Company; and
(iii) certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.
                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  108          Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

		Group

				2021                                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                                           RM

At beginning of the year               			                                1,525,409    1,544,777
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7)  			                                   (17,526)     (19,368)

At end of the year				                                                    1,507,883    1,525,409

This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:

		Group

				2021                                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                                           RM

Difference between net carrying amount of property,

  plant and equipment and its tax base				                                4,744,700    4,195,350
                                                                          2,420,983    2,464,009
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment         		                                (2,035,700)
                                                                            (308,400)  (2,272,150)
Unutilised tax losses                                                     (4,928,200)
                                                                                         (826,100)
Unabsorbed capital allowances                                               (421,200)

Other deductible temporary differences 			

					1,507,883                                                                         1,525,409

The estimated amount of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets are recognised in the financial
statements are as follows:

		Group

				2021                                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                                           RM

Unutilised tax losses                                                     25,544,700   25,806,800
Unabsorbed capital allowances                                                 384,300      573,700
Other deductible temporary differences 			
                                                                           2,612,700    2,570,400

					28,541,700                                                                        28,950,900
Annual Report 2021  109               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                          NOTES TO THE
                                                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (Cont’d)

22. 	LEASE LIABILITIES                   Motor             Hostel    Office    Factory   Total
                                      Vehicles             Rental    Rental     Rental     RM
        		                                                                           RM
                                             RM                RM        RM
        Group
        2021                          21,426               172,800    72,000    90,000     356,226
        Minimum lease                  3,570               163,800    72,000
          rental payables                    –                       198,000    90,000     329,370
        Within 1 year                                       48,600   342,000
        More than 1 year              24,996               385,200   (17,776)  225,000     471,600
          but less than 2 years       (3,019)              (10,055)
        More than 2 years                                            324,224   405,000   1,157,196
          but less than 5 years       21,977               375,145             (19,564)     (50,414)

        		                                                                     385,436   1,106,782
        Less: Future finance charges
                                      18,838               166,125    65,436    82,418   332,817
        Present value of               3,139               160,868    66,910    84,233   315,150
          lease rental payables              –                       191,878   218,785   458,815
                                                            48,152
        Present value of              21,977                         324,224   385,436   1,106,782
          lease rental payables                            375,145
        Within 1 year
        More than 1 year              18,838               166,125    65,436    82,418     332,817
          but less than 2 years        3,139               209,020   258,788   303,018     773,965
        More than 2 years
          but less than 5 years       21,977               375,145   324,224   385,436   1,106,782

        Present value of
          lease rental payables

        Analysed as:
          Current portion
          Non-current portion

        		
                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   110  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

22. 	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)

	Lease of

		                               Motor     Hostel      Office         Factory
                                           Rental      Rental          Rental
		                               Vehicles                                   RM  Total
                                               RM          RM                     RM
		                               RM

Group (cont’d)                   65,348    108,000      72,000         90,000     335,348
2020                                       108,000      72,000
Minimum lease                    22,473                216,000         90,000     292,473
  rental payables                           99,000      54,000
Within 1 year                     3,746             –  414,000        270,000     588,746
More than 1 year                        –              (25,782)        45,000       99,000
  but less than 2 years                    315,000
More than 2 years                          (10,299)    388,218        495,000   1,315,567
  but less than 5 years                                               (28,922)     (73,348)
More than 5 years                          304,701

		                               91,567
Less: Future finance charges     (8,345)

Present value of                 83,222                               466,078   1,242,219
  lease rental payables

Present value of                 60,170    102,246      63,994         80,642   307,052
  lease rental payables          19,759    104,550      65,436
Within 1 year                                          205,287         82,418   272,163
More than 1 year                  3,293     97,905      53,501
  but less than 2 years                 –           –                 258,303   564,788
More than 2 years                                      388,218         44,715    98,216
  but less than 5 years          83,222    304,701
More than 5 years                                                     466,078   1,242,219

Present value of
  lease rental payables

Analysed as:                     60,170    102,246      63,994         80,642     307,052
  Current portion                23,052    202,455     324,224        385,436     935,167
  Non-current portion
                                 83,222    304,701     388,218        466,078   1,242,219
		
Annual Report 2021   111        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                          NOTES TO THE
                                                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (Cont’d)

22. 	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)

The effective interest rates per annum on the lease liabilities of the Group are as follows:

			Lease of

			                                    Motor                      Hostel   Office                   Factory
                                                                  Rental   Rental                    Rental
			Vehicles                                                                                                %
                                                                        %        %
       		%                                                                                               2.20

2021                                                 4.68         2.25                        2.25       2.20
Group
Effective interest rate

2020

Group

Effective interest rate		                            4.68         2.25                        2.25

23. TRADE PAYABLES

        The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2020: 30 to 90
        days).

24. OTHER PAYABLES

                                                           Group                                    Company

		2021                                                            2020                        2021           2020
                                                                   RM
                                 Note                RM                                       RM             RM

Sundry payables                        3,406,911           4,729,484            6,394                          –
                                                           2,327,269           76,590                   67,000
Accruals		4,850,971                                        2,698,376
                                                           3,278,714                  –                        –
Retirement benefits              (i)   2,601,218                             118,510                  154,600
                                                                      –    2,963,318                2,288,028
Amounts due to Directors		             4,323,798           2,813,554
                                                                                      –                        –
Amounts due to subsidiaries                          –

Amounts due to related parties         675,708

			15,858,606                                              15,847,397      3,164,812                2,509,628

The amounts due to Directors, subsidiaries, and related parties are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on
demand.

Related parties refer to certain companies in which certain Directors of the Company have substantial financial
interests as disclosed in Note 26.
                                              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  112        Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

24. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

(i) Retirement benefits

A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit plans that
provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for employees.

		Group

				2021                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                           RM

Movement in the present value of
  defined benefit obligations

At beginning of the year          			                              2,698,376  2,599,086
                                                                                372,354
Current service cost and interest 			                              334,918     (336,324)
                                                                                  63,260
Actuarial gain in other comprehensive income  		                   (306,288)

Exchange differences				 (125,788)

At end of the year                			                              2,601,218  2,698,376

Expense recognised in profit or loss

		Group

				2021                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                           RM

Current service cost and interest 			                              334,918                        372,354

The expense is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive income:-

		Group

				2021                                                                                          2020

		 		RM                                                                                           RM

Staff costs				                                                    334,918                        372,354
Annual Report 2021  113  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

24. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

(i) Retirement benefits (cont’d)

Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income

		Group

				2021                                                                     2020

		 		RM                                                                      RM

At beginning of the year          			                             400,512     64,188
Recognised during the year        			                             306,288    336,324

At end of the year				                                            706,800    400,512

Actuarial assumptions

		Group

				2021                                                                     2020

		 		%                                                                       %

Discount rate				6.82                                                        7.73

Salary increment rate				                                         2.0        7.0

Disability rate				                                               5.0        5.0

Resignation rate

  20 - 30                         			                             15% up to  10.0

  31 - 40				 the age of 30                                                  5.0

  41 - 45				 and decrease                                                   3.0

  46 - 50				 linearly to 0%                                                 2.0

  51 - 54				 at retirement                                                  1.0

  > 55                                                            age        –

25. REBATE LIABILITY

        Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against amounts
        payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.

26. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

        Identity of related parties

        For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and the Company
        if the Group and the Company have the ability to directly control the party or exercise significant influence over the
        party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the party
        are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.

        The Group and the Company have related party relationships with its subsidiaries, related companies, key management
        personnel and related parties. Related parties refer to companies in which certain Directors of the Company have
        substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.
                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD       114          Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

26. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (cont’d)

Identity of related parties (cont’d)

Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the related party transactions between the Group and
its related parties during the financial year are as follows:

		Group

				2021                                                                                  2020

		 		RM                                                                                   RM

Related parties:

Transportation charges				2,425,570                                              2,590,303
                                                                                   130,127
Upkeep of motor vehicles                                                 52,317             –
                                                                                      1,548
Office rental                                                       (19,000)                –
                                                                                     36,000
Travelling expenses				 26,470                                                     381,331
                                                                                     60,000
Lease of office                                                          72,312

Lease of motor vehicle                                                   –

Warehouse management				341,320

Warehouse rental                                                         –

Compensation of key management personnel

Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel
include all the Directors of the Group and of the Company and certain senior management personnel of the Group.

                                                   Group                         Company

		2021                                                    2020           2021             2020
		RM                                                       RM
                                                                         RM               RM

Directors of the Company

Directors’ fee and allowances		184,510                    226,600   184,510      226,600
                                                          749,700            –            –
Salaries and other emoluments             510,971
                                                          119,952            –            –
Contributions to defined                                       924           –            –

  contribution plan                       68,544

Social security contributions             923

			764,948                                         1,097,176        184,510      226,600

Key management personnel                  872,427  1,153,685                 –            –
Salaries and other emoluments              72,785      67,225                –            –
Contributions to defined                                                     –            –
  contribution plan                                1,220,910        184,510      226,600
                                                   2,318,086
                                          945,212

			1,710,160
Annual Report 2021  115       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

27. CAPITAL COMMITMENT

		Group

				2021                                                                                    2020

		 		RM                                                                                     RM

Approved and contracted for:                                         –                      41,782
Construction of warehouse

28. OPERATING SEGMENTS

The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
canned food, frozen food, drinks and biscuits. The Group Managing Director (the Chief Operating Decision Maker)
reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis. Accordingly, information by
operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not presented.

Geographical area

The Group operates in four principal geographical areas – Malaysia (country of domicile), United States of America
(“USA”), Europe and Asia.

Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets respectively
are as follows:

                                                   Group                             Group

                                                   External revenue  Non-current assets*

		2021                                                    2020       2021                   2020

		RM                                                      RM         RM                     RM

Malaysia		55,511,176                               53,372,088        77,771,767      79,581,971
                                                   68,166,490                     –               –
USA                           56,488,105           16,865,952                     –               –
                                                   10,840,715
Europe                        41,879,830                             14,303,950      13,945,010

Asia (excludes Malaysia)		    6,660,153

			160,539,264 149,245,245                                           92,075,717      93,526,981

* Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         116                                 Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Categories of financial instruments

The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:

                                                 Group                                               Company

		2021                                                  2020                           2021                   2020
		RM                                                     RM
                                                                                       RM                     RM

Financial assets                     –                  754,000                        –             754,000
Fair value through profit or loss
  Other investment

Amortised cost

  Trade receivables                  33,363,772  28,603,055                   –                                 –
                                                  4,043,881      15,116,918                          2,304,936
  Other receivables*		1,805,972                   6,854,390
                                                                     142,200                              8,811
  Cash and bank balances             14,628,260  39,501,326
                                                                 15,259,118                          2,313,747
			49,798,004

Financial liabilities

Amortised cost

  Borrowings                         28,884,307  42,209,087                                       –             –
                                                 19,590,710                                       –             –
  Trade payables                     20,003,757  15,847,397                            3,164,812     2,509,628
                                                                                                  –             –
  Other payables		15,858,606                      1,242,219
                                                                                       3,164,812     2,509,628
  Lease liabilities                  1,106,782   78,889,413

			65,853,452

* Excluding prepayments

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
risk, foreign currency risk and equity price risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses on
the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s and the
Company’s financial performance.

Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group and of the Company. Management continually
monitors the Group’s and the Company’s risk management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between
risk and control is achieved. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the
market conditions and the Group’s and the Company’s activities.

There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it manages and
measures the risk.
Annual Report 2021  117  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

        Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

        (a) Credit risk

                Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its
                contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the individual characteristics
                of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to
                subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior periods.

                Trade receivables

                Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
                Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business partners with
                good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.

                At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables and contract assets are credit
                impaired.

                The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full) when there is
                no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does
                not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject
                to write-off.

                Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

                There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.

                Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying
                amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.

                Credit risk concentration profile

                The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on an ongoing
                basis.

                The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to amounts owing from 3 customers (2020: 5 customers)
                which constituted to approximately 15% (2020: 21%) of the Group’s net trade receivables as at the end of the
                reporting period.

                Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                The Group applies the MFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring ECL which uses a lifetime expected loss
                allowance for trade receivables.

                The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual and collective basis.

                For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can be individually
                managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has reasonable and supportable
                information available to assess the impairment individually. All these customers have low risk of default.
                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD     118         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(a) Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)

For collective assessment, the Group uses an allowance matrix to measure ECL of collective assessed
receivables as they are grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics, the days past due and similar
types of contracts which have similar risk characteristics.

Loss rates under collective assessment are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability
of a receivable progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due from the date of
invoices or expiry of credit period. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experienced over the past three
years. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which
the historical data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions
over the expected lives of the receivables.

Impairment losses

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as
at the reporting date:

					2021                                                                2020
					RM                                                                   RM

Group                                                       25,215,462   28,235,377
Not past due				
Past due:                                                    4,266,567       799,621
  Less than 30 days				                                      2,537,412       947,736
  31 to 90 days				

					6,803,979                                                           1,747,357

Credit impaired:                                            4,064,393    2,147,959
  More than 90 days				

					36,083,834                                                          32,130,693

Less: Loss allowances				                                   (2,720,062)  (3,527,638)

					33,363,772                                                          28,603,055

Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired

Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with good payment records
and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group.
Annual Report 2021  119  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

        Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

        (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

                Trade receivables (cont’d)

                Receivables that are past due but not impaired

                The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as there have been
                no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still considered recoverable. These trade
                receivables relate mostly to customers with slower repayment patterns, for whom there is no history of default
                and certain balances were settled subsequent to the reporting date. The Group does not hold any collateral
                or other credit enhancement over these balances.

                Credit impaired

                The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual and collective basis. For individual
                assessment, the Group has reasonable and supportable information available to assess the impairment
                individually. Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to have
                higher credit risk, are monitored individually.

                Trade receivables that are collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to debtors that
                have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These receivables are not secured by any collateral
                or credit enhancements.

                Inter-company loans and advances

                Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to subsidiaries. The Company monitors the ability of
                the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.

                Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
                amounts in the statements of financial position. Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral
                or supported by any other credit enhancements.

                Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand, expected
                credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date.

                Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
                assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position deteriorates
                significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the subsidiaries’ loans and
                advances when they are payable, the Company considers the loans and advances to be in default when the
                subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded.

                The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using internal
                information available.

                As at the reporting period, there were no indications of impairment loss in respect of amounts due from
                subsidiaries. The Company does not specifically monitor the ageing of the current advances to the subsidiaries.
                The Company monitors the results of the subsidiaries regularly.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  120  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

        Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

        (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

                Financial guarantee

                The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
                The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the
                subsidiaries.

                Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                The maximum exposure to credit risks amounts to RM19,152,468 (2020: RM28,781,703) representing the
                outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The financial guarantee
                is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’ banking facilities.

                Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial positions
                deteriorate significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:-

                - The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
                - The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.

                The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal information
                available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the probability of the financial guarantee being
                called upon is remote at the initial recognition as the borrowings of the subsidiaries are adequately secured
                by assets as disclosed in Note 20. Should the subsidiaries defaulted any loan repayments, the proceeds from
                the realisation of assets will be able to satisfy the outstanding debts.

                Cash and cash equivalents

                The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting period, the
                maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
                These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.

                Other receivables

                Expected credit loss of other receivable is determined individually after considering the financial strength of the
                other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risks is represented
                by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The Group has provided allowances for
                expected credit losses on these amounts as disclosed in Note 16.

                Credit risk on deposits are mainly arising from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities deposit for
                rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services and thus have low credit
                risks. As at the end of the reporting period, no allowance for doubtful debts is necessary in respect of the
                deposits.
Annual Report 2021  121  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

        Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

        (b) Foreign currency risk

                The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency
                other than the functional currency of the Group. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United
                States Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”) and
                Thai Baht (“THB”).

                Exposure to foreign currency risk

                The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional currency of the
                Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period was:

		                                                        Denominated in
		
		                       USD                  SGD RMB              THB      IDR  Total
                          RM                                                       RM
Group                                         RM          RM       RM       RM
2021
Trade receivables        15,420,014 706,148               –        –        – 16,126,162
Other receivables
Cash and bank balances   157,785              –           –        – 39,479      197,264
Trade payables
Other payables           306,014              –           –        –        –    306,014
Borrowings
                         (16,800,560)         –           –        –        – (16,800,560)

                         (4,413,835)          –           –        –        – (4,413,835)

                         (8,239,730)          –           –        –        – (8,239,730)

                         (13,570,312) 706,148             –        – 39,479 (12,824,685)

2020                     15,138,134           559,086           –        –  – 15,697,220
Trade receivables            922,483             3,375          –  3,132
Other receivables                                      –        –           –    928,990
Cash and bank balances     1,180,260                   –  (9,315)        –
Trade payables           (14,263,462)                  –        –        –  –    1,180,260
Other payables                                         –        –   (925)
Borrowings                (3,949,019)                                    –  – (14,272,777)
                          (8,467,774)         562,461     (9,315)
                                                                   2,207    – (3,949,944)
                          (9,439,378)
                                                                            – (8,467,774)

                                                                            – (8,884,025)
                                            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  122           Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(b) Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis

The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign currencies
as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:

		Group

					 2021                                                                     2020

					 Increase/                                                                Increase/

					 (Decrease)                                                               (Decrease)

					 in profit net                                                            in loss net

					                                                                 of tax/  of tax/

					equity                                                                    equity

					 RM                                                                       RM

Effects on profit/(loss) after tax/equity:

RM/USD                                                           515,672       (358,696)
Strengthened by 5%				                                           (515,672)     358,696
Weakened by 5%				

RM/SGD                                                           (26,834)      21,374
Strengthened by 5%				                                           26,834        (21,374)
Weakened by 5%				

RM/RMB                                                                –        (354)
Strengthened by 5%
Weakened by 5%                                                        –        354

RM/THB                                                                –        84
Strengthened by 5%
Weakened by 5%                                                        –        (84)

RM/IDR                                                                (1,500)  –
Strengthened by 5%
Weakened by 5%                                                        1,500    –

(c) Interest rate risk

        Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because
        of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from interest-
        bearing financial assets and liabilities.

        In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective interest rates
        at the reporting date are as disclosed in the respective notes.
Annual Report 2021  123  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(c) Interest rate risk (cont’d)

Exposure to interest rate risk

The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:

		Group

				2021                                                                   2020

		 		RM                                                                    RM

Fixed rate instrument:

Financial liabilities

Lease liabilities				 (1,106,782)                                           (1,242,219)
                                                                           (22,053,774)
Bankers’ acceptances             			 (13,309,730)
                                                                            (4,000,000)
Revolving credit				 (3,000,000)

				 (17,416,512) (27,295,993)

Floating rate instrument:                     		            1,777,373        2,112,252
Financial asset
Short-term fund		                                                           (3,480,960)
                                                                           (12,674,353)
Financial liabilities                                           (871,983)  (14,043,061)
Bank overdrafts				                                         (11,702,594)
Term loans				

					 (10,797,204)

Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably possible
change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

		Group

					2021                                                                  2020

					Increase/                                                             Increase/

				 (Decrease)                                                            (Decrease)

				 in profit net                                                         in loss net

				                                                        of tax/        of tax/

					equity                                                                equity

				RM                                                                     RM

Effect on profit/(loss) after tax/equity:                   (20,515)       26,682
Increase of 25 (2020: 25) basis points			                   20,515         (26,682)
Decrease of 25 (2020: 25) basis points			
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)                                                                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
                                                                                                                                                          (Cont’d)
(d)	Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group’s
exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s objective is to maintain
a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.

The Group’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to
ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. In addition, the Group maintains sufficient levels of cash and available banking
facilities at a reasonable level to its overall debt position to meet its working capital requirement.

The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities at the reporting date on contractual undiscounted
repayment obligations:-

				                                                                     On demand

		                                  Carrying Contractual                 or within			                             More than
                                                                                                                      5 years
		                                  amount                  cash flows   1 year       1 - 2 years   2 - 5 years            RM

		                                  RM                      RM           RM           RM            RM

Group                                   871,983                 871,983      871,983             –             –             –                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
2021                                13,309,730              13,309,730   13,309,730              –             –             –
Bank overdrafts                                                                                  –             –             –
Bankers’ acceptances                 3,000,000               3,000,000    3,000,000   1,648,739     4,251,351     7,101,885
Revolving credit                    11,702,594              14,650,714    1,648,739              –             –             –
Term loans                          20,003,757              20,003,757   20,003,757              –             –             –
Trade payables                      15,858,606              15,858,606   15,858,606     329,370       471,600                –
Other payables
Lease liabilities                    1,106,782               1,157,196       356,226

		                                  65,853,452              68,851,986   55,049,041   1,978,109     4,722,951     7,101,885                                                       124

Company                             –                       19,152,468   19,152,468   –             –             –                                                               Annual Report 2021
2021
Financial guarantee*                3,164,812               3,164,812    3,164,812    –             –             –
Other payables

                                    3,164,812               22,317,280   22,317,280   –             –             –
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)                                                                                                                                           Annual Report 2021

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(d)	Liquidity risk (cont’d)

				                                                                    On demand

		                                  Carrying Contractual                or within			                                                 More than
                                                                                                                                         5 years
		                                  amount                  cash flows  1 year       1 - 2 years   2 - 5 years                                RM

		                                  RM                      RM          RM           RM            RM                                             –                          125
                                                                                                                                                  –
Group                                3,480,960               3,480,960   3,480,960              –             –                                   –                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
2020                                22,053,774              22,053,774  22,053,774              –             –                       8,502,006
Bank overdrafts                                                                                 –             –                                   –
Bankers’ acceptances                 4,000,000               4,000,000   4,000,000   1,708,368     4,870,559                                      –
Revolving credit                    12,674,353              16,789,301   1,708,368              –             –                           99,000
Term loans                          19,590,710              19,590,710  19,590,710              –             –
Trade payables                      15,847,397              15,847,397  15,847,397     292,473       588,746                          8,601,006
Other payables
Lease liabilities                    1,242,219               1,315,567      335,348  2,000,841     5,459,305

		                                  78,889,413              83,077,709  67,016,557

Company                             –                       29,658,703  29,658,703   –             –                                 –                     NOTES TO THE
2020                                                                                                                                                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial guarantee*                2,509,628               2,509,628   2,509,628    –             –                                 –
Other payables                                                                                                                                       (Cont’d)

                                    2,509,628               32,168,331  32,168,331   –             –                                 –

* This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
All of the Company’s liabilities at the reporting date mature within one year or repayable on demand.
                                 REX INDUSTRY BERHAD     126         Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

30. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION

The financial assets and financial liabilities maturing within the next twelve (12) months approximated their fair values
due to the relatively short-term maturity of these financial instruments. The disclosure of fair value is not made for
floating rate instruments that are repriced to market interest rate on or near the reporting date.

The aggregate fair values and the carrying amounts of the financial assets carried on the statements of financial
position as at the reporting date are as below:

					 Total                                                          Carrying
                                                                      amount
       	Level 1	Level 2	Level 3                          fair value
                                                                            RM
                             RM  RM  RM                       RM

Group/Company

2020

Asset

Other investment  754,000        –                    –  754,000     754,000

Level 1:

The fair value of other investment at fair value through profit or loss is determined by reference to their quoted closing
bid prices at the end of the financial year.

Level 2:

Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
(i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

Level 3:

The fair value is determined by discounting the relevant cash flows using interest rates for similar instruments at the
end of the reporting year.

There was no material transfer between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the financial year.
Annual Report 2021  127  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

31. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies
with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital. Net debt
includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances whilst total capital is equity attributable to
Owners of the Company.

The net debt-to-equity ratios at end of the reporting period are as follows:-

		Group

				2021                                                                                                  2020

		 		RM                                                                                                   RM

Borrowings (Note 20)				                                                       28,884,307    42,209,087
Lease liabilities (Note 22)				                                                  1,106,782    1,242,219
Less: Cash and bank balances				                                                             (6,854,390)
                                                                               (14,628,260)

Total net debts				                                                             15,362,829    36,596,916
Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company			                      127,404,424   101,891,151

Debt to equity ratio				                                                       0.12                       0.36

The net debt to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
The Group is in compliance with all externally imposed capital requirements.
                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  128  Annual Report 2021

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

32. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR

        Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak

        Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Government of Malaysia and Indonesia had implemented various and
        differing forms of lockdowns and standard operating procedures to be complied with over the course of the past
        financial year and up to the date of this report. The Group has obtained approval to continue its operations at range
        of 60%-80% capacity over these periods.

        In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group has and will continue to implement various precautionary
        measures at its factories and offices to minimise the risk of COVID-19 infections and to ensure compliance with the
        standard operating procedures imposed by the Government. The Group has no specific plans that are required to
        be implemented to ensure continuity and sustainability of its business or to address the impact of the COVID-19
        pandemic. Nonetheless, the Board will continue to monitor the developments arising from the COVID-19 pandemic
        and will adopt the necessary strategies to mitigate any potential risks and/or seize the opportunities arising therefrom.

        The Group has registered to participate in the Public-Private Partnership COVID-19 Industry Immunisation Programme
        (PIKAS) vaccine program organised by MITI. As at the date of this report, more than 90% of the Group’s employees
        have received their 1st dose of vaccine. As for the Group’s Indonesian operating subsidiary, more than 90% of the
        employees had completed their 2 doses of vaccine.

        Save as mentioned above, the re-imposition of various forms of lockdowns did not have material impact on the
        operations and financial performance of the Group as the Group continued to operate during these periods. The
        Board of Directors of the Group (“Board”) will continue to assess the impact of COVID-19 on the Group’s operations
        and financial performance.

        Rights Issue

        On 15 December 2020, the Board of Directors announced that the Company to undertake the proposed renounceable
        right issue of up to 246,626,468 new ordinary shares at the issue price of RM0.10 per Rights Shares on the basis of
        1 Rights Share for every 1 existing Rex Share held, hence marking the completion of the Rights Issue exercise.

33. EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR

        The Board of Directors has recommended a first and final single tier dividend of 0.20 sen per ordinary share for the
        financial year ended 30 June 2021. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed
        dividend. Such dividend, will be accounted for in equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year
        ending 30 June 2022.
Annual Report 2021  129  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

34. COMPARATIVE FIGURES

Certain comparative figures are reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentations.

		Group

		                                			 As previously                                           As

					 reported reclassified

		                                			RM                                                       RM

Statements of Financial Position              265,009                                                  –
Current liabilities                                    –                                      265,009
Contract liability
Rebate liability

Statements of Comprehensive Income            (21,944,015)                                    (22,079,295)
Staff costs				                                             –                                 (26,582,547)
Administrative expenses
Other expenses				                            (28,381,726)                                     (2,135,042)
Other income				                                1,351,526                                       1,822,669
                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         130              Annual Report 2021

Properties

As at 30 June 2021

Location/                           Description          Tenure      Land area        Date of        Net book Value
(Registered owner)                  (Lot/Title No)    (Approx. age    (Built up)    Acquisition/        30/6/2021
                                   Industrial Land    of building)                 *Revaluation            (RM)
Plot 125,                            with factory     60 years with     sq. ft.
Bukit Minyak                                                                      *30 August 2012      12,421,567
Industrial Park,                    Industrial land     42 years     6.0052 Acre
Seberang Perai Tengah.                                  remaining     (261,586)   *30 August 2012    7,910,647
                                Residential premises    (18 years)
Plot 126,                       (Lot 4639/HS(D)3363)  60 years with     sq. ft.
Bukit Minyak                    (Lot 4654/HS(D)3378)    52 years
Industrial Park,                                        remaining      1.74236
Seberang Perai Tengah.             Industrial Land      (8 years)        acre
                                     with factory       Freehold
Lintang Mak Mandin,                                                    1,086      31 December 1996    99,405
Taman Bayu,                        Industrial Land    30 years with    sq. ft.    *30 November 2012  1,287,057
13400 Butterworth.                                       3 years
                                       3 Storey         remaining      8,120
JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,         Semi-Detached        (25 years)   sq. meters
Beji, Pasuraun, Jawa Timur,
Indonesia.                             Factory        30 years with    15,310     13 August 2014     5,996,826
                                       Type B           23 years     sq. meters
JI. Raya Beji Km 4,                3 Storey terrace     remaining
Desa Beji, Kecamatan Beji,           shop office                       2,024      10 August 2016     4,403,379
Kabupaten Pasuraun,                                    Leasehold     sq. meters
Propinsi Jawa Timur,                  1½ storey
Indonesia.                          intermediate        Freehold        149       5 August 2016      1,329,203
                                      factory lot                    sq. meters
No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,                               99 years with
Taman Industri Alam Jaya,           Industrial land     76 years        186       24 November 2016   395,075
Bandar Puncak Alam,                 with Factory        remaining    sq. meters
42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.          cum office         (23 years)
                                                        Freehold     2.3051       *26 September 2019 13,407,727
22, Jalan Perniagaan                                                 hectares
Seri Tambun,
Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
14100 Simpang Ampat,
Pulau Pinang.

No.42, Lintasan Perajurit 17C,
Taman Perdagangan &
Perindustrian Ipoh,
31400 Ipoh, Perak.

No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
Sungai Suloh,
Mukim Minyak Beku,
83000 Batu Pahat, Johor
                 REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                         No. of Ordinary Shares held
                                                             CDS Account No.
                 [Registration No. 199301027926 (282664-K)]  Telephone No.
                 (Incorporated in Malaysia)                  Email Address

                                                    FORM OF PROXY

   *I/We (Full Name),
   bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
   of (Full Address)

   being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-

   First Proxy “A”

   Full Name (in Block Capital)                              NRIC No./ Passport No.       Proportion of Shareholdings
                                                                                                    Represented

                                                                                          No. of Shares         %

   Full Address

   *and                                                      NRIC No./ Passport No.       Proportion of Shareholdings
   Second Proxy “B”                                                                                 Represented

    Full Name (in Block Capital)                                                          No. of Shares         %

    Full Address

                                                                                                                100%

   or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf
   at the Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held on a fully virtual basis hosted on Securities Services
   e-Portal at https://sshsb.net.my/ at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490
   Kuala Lumpur on Monday, 29 November 2021 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.

   (Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given,
   the proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)

   * Strike out whichever is inapplicable

   No. Agenda

   1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021 together with the Reports of the Directors
           and the Auditors thereon.

                                                                                                           For  Against

   2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting

   to RM270,750 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2022 and

   thereafter.                                                                       (Resolution 1)

   3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM100,000 from 30 November

   2021 until the next AGM of the Company.                                           (Resolution 2)

   4(a). To re-elect Encik Adnan bin Admad, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the

   Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.   (Resolution 3)

   4(b). To re-elect Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the

   Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.   (Resolution 4)

   5. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion

   of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.         (Resolution 5)

   Special Business

   6. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.                  (Resolution 6)

   7. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a

   Revenue or Trading Nature.                                                        (Resolution 7)

   8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares.      (Resolution 8)

   Signed this       day of                                  , 2021

✄                      Signature of Member                                             Common Seal to be affixed here if
   		                                                                                Member is a corporation, if applicable
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Seventh AGM (“Meeting”):

1. As part of the initiatives to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Meeting will be conducted on a fully virtual basis by way of live
         streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities to be provided by SS E Solutions Sdn.
         Bhd. via Securities Services e-Portal’s platform at https://sshsb.net.my/. Please read carefully and follow the procedures provided
         in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPV facilities.

2. Members, proxies and/or corporate representatives will not be allowed to be physically present during the Meeting.

With the RPV facilities, members, proxies and/or corporate representatives are to remotely participate (including to pose questions
to the Chairman, Board of Directors or Management) and vote at the Meeting.

As guided by the Securities Commission Malaysia’s Guidance Note and Frequently Asked Questions on the Conduct of General
Meetings for Listed Issuers as revised, the right to speak is not limited to verbal communication only but includes other modes
of expression. Therefore, all members, proxies and/or corporate representatives shall communicate with the broadcast venue of
the Meeting via real time submission of typed texts through a text box within Securities Services e-Portal’s platform during the
live streaming of the Meeting as the primary mode of communication. In the event of any technical glitch in this primary mode of
communication, members, proxies or corporate representatives may email their questions to eservices@sshsb.com.my during the
Meeting. The Chairman and Board of Directors shall endeavour to respond to all questions and/or remarks submitted by members
and proxies during the Meeting.

3. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate, speak and vote at the meeting, the Company shall be
         requesting the Record of Depositors as at 19 November 2021. Only Members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors
         as at 19 November 2021 shall be entitled to participate, speak and vote at the Meeting of the Company.

4. A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote in his
         stead. Where a member appoints two or more proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions of his
         shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.

5. Where a member of the Company is an Authorised Nominee, it may appoint at least one proxy in respect of each Securities
         Account it holds with ordinary shares standing in credit of the said Securities Account. Where a member of the Company is an
         Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
         (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect
         of each Omnibus Account it holds.

6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hands of the appointer or of his attorney duly authorised in writing
         or, if the appointer is a corporation under its common seal, or the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.

7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or a duly notarised
         certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the Meeting or any
         adjournment thereof through either one of the following avenues:

(i) In Hardcopy Form of Proxy     (a) To be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Securities Services
(ii) By Electronic Form of Proxy           (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat
                                           Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah
                                           Persekutuan; or

                                  (b) To be submitted via fax at +603 2094 9940 or +603 2095 0292 or emailed
                                           to info@sshsb.com.my; or

                                  (c) To be submitted electronically via Securities Services e-Portal at https://sshsb.
                                           net.my/. Please refer to the Administrative Guide available for download at
                                           http://www.rexmalaysia.com/ for further details.

Should you wish to personally participate at the Meeting remotely, please register electronically via Securities Services e-Portal’s
platform at https://sshsb.net.my/ by the registration cut-off date and time. Please refer to the Administrative Guide for further details
that available for download at http://www.rexmalaysia.com/.

8. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal approval
         of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the
         Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
   Fold This Flap For Sealing

   2nd Fold Here

                                                                           AFFIX
                                                                           STAMP

                               The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
                               Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                               Level 7, Menara Milenium,
                               Jalan Damanlela,
                               Pusat Bandar Damansara,
                               Damansara Heights,
                               50490 Kuala Lumpur,
                               Wilayah Persekutuan.

   1st Fold Here

✄
