CONTENTS

Notice of Annual General Meeting            Thirty Largest Shareholders
2                                           49

Administrative Guide                        Corporate Structure
8                                           50

Corporate Information                       Directors’ Report
11                                          51

Profile of Directors                        Statement by Directors
12                                          55

Profile of Key Senior Management            Statutory Declaration
15                                          55

Corporate Governance Overview Statement     Independent Auditors’ Report
16                                          56

Sustainability Statement                    Statements of Comprehensive Income
32                                          60

Audit Committee Report                      Statements of Financial Position
37                                          61

Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for  Statements of Changes in Equity
preparing the Financial Statements          62
40
                                            Statements of Cash Flows
Statement on Risk Management and Internal   64
Control
41                                          Notes to the Financial
                                            Statements
Additional Compliance Information           68
43
                                            Properties
Management Discussion and Analysis          126
44
                                            Form of Proxy
Analysis of Shareholdings
48
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                              Annual Report 2022

   NOTICE OF
   ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

   NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad will be held at
   Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf & Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
   on Tuesday, 29 November 2022 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the following purposes:-

   AS ORDINARY BUSINESS                                                                             (Please refer to the
                                                                                                              Note No. 7)
   1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022
          together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.                            (Resolution 1)

   2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors                    (Resolution 2)
          amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30
          June 2023 and thereafter.

   3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 30
          November 2022 until the next AGM of the Company.

   4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause
          115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-
          election:-

          (a) Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain; and                                         (Resolution 3)
          (b) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun                                                                   (Resolution 4)

   5. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with Clause
          114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-
          election:-

          (a) Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim; and                                                             (Resolution 5)
          (b) Kajendra Pathmanathan                                                                 (Resolution 6)

   6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until          (Resolution 7)
          the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

   AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

   To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following Ordinary    (Resolution 8)
   Resolutions:-

   7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
          - AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

   “THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
   Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
   and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and
   are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to issue and allot shares in the capital of
   the Company from time to time at such price and upon such terms and conditions,
   for such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in
   their absolute discretion deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares
   issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total
   number of issued shares of the Company for the time being;

   THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of the
   Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory
   pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares of the
   Company ranking equally to the existing issued shares arising from any issuance of
   new shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act;

   AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the
   listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa Securities; AND
   FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
   resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
   Meeting of the Company.”

2
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                     Annual Report 2022

                                             NOTICE OF
                     ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                       (Cont’d)

8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2                                                                           (Resolution 9)
       - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDER MANDATE FOR RECURRENT
         RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE

       “THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
       approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to
       enter into and to give effect to the category of the recurrent related party transactions
       of a revenue or trading nature from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in
       Section 2.5 of the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022, provided
       that such transactions are:-

       (i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;

       (ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;

       (iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms which
              are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to
              the public; and

       (iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,

              (the “Mandate”);

       AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
       continue to be in force until:-

       (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
              following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which time it will lapse,
              unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed;

       (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
              date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Act (but shall not
              extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the
              Act); or

       (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
              Company in a general meeting;

              whichever is the earlier;

       AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such acts
       and things (including executing all such documents as may be required), as they may
       consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”

                                                                                                                   3
       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                Annual Report 2022

    NOTICE OF                                                                                                 (Resolution 10)
    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

     (Cont’d)

     9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
            - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS OWN
              SHARES

            “THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
            Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing
            Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations and guidelines for the
            time being in force and the approvals of all relevant governmental and/or regulatory
            authorities, approval be and is hereby given to the Company to purchase such number
            of ordinary shares as may be determined by the Directors of the Company from time
            to time through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may
            deem fit, necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
            of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-

            (a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by the
                    Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the
                    total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on Bursa Securities as
                    at the point of purchase; and

            (b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing
                    its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits of the Company
                    based on the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest unaudited
                    financial statements (where applicable) available at the time of the purchase.

            THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and shall
            continue to be in force until:-

            (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
                    following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at which time it will lapse,
                    unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM, the authority is renewed,
                    either unconditionally or subject to conditions;

            (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
                    date is required by law to be held; or

            (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
                    Company in a general meeting;

            whichever occurs first;

            AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own ordinary
            shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the ordinary shares
            purchased in their absolute discretion in the following manners:-

            (a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or

            (b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution as dividend
                    to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa Securities and/or
                    transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any) and/or transfer as purchase
                    consideration;

            (c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or

            in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders made
            pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any other relevant
            authority for the time being in force.

            AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts, deeds
            and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the
            Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Authority with
            full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or amendments
            as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all
            such acts and things as they may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the
            Company.”

4
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                     Annual Report 2022

                                             NOTICE OF
                     ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                       (Cont’d)

10. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4                                                                    (Resolution 11)
       - RETENTION OF TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN AS AN INDEPENDENT
        DIRECTOR

       “THAT Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain who has served the Board as an
       Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of nine (9) years since 30
       June 2014 be and is hereby retained as an Independent Director of the Company.”

11. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been given.

By Order of the Board of Directors

CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689/ SSM PC NO.: 201908002648)
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
Company Secretaries

Dated: 31 October 2022

Explanatory Notes to Special Business:

1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016

       The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Seventh AGM of the Company
       held on 29 November 2021 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.

       The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot shares
       pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a
       general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%)
       of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being (hereinafter referred to as the “10% General
       Mandate”).

       The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities, including but not
       limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment projects, working capital and/or
       acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons at any time as the Directors may deem fit,
       without incurring any further cost to convene a separate general meeting to approve such authority. This authority,
       unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the
       Company.

       Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of the Company,
       shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which rank equally to the existing
       issued shares in the Company or other securities.

       The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under the authority
       to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer the new shares to be issued equally to
       all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.

2.	Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or
       Trading Nature

       The proposed Resolution 9 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent
       related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations,
       subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms which are not
       more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not to the detriment of the
       minority shareholders of the Company.

       Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022 for more information.

                                                                                                                                       5
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD     Annual Report 2022

   NOTICE OF
   ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

   (Cont’d)

   Explanatory Notes to Special Business: (Cont’d)

   3.	Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares

          The proposed Resolution 10 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%)
          of the total number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Malaysia
          Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

          Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2022 for more information.

   4. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director

          Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain (“Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim”) was appointed as an Independent Director of the
          Company on 30 June 2014 and has served the Board for a cumulative of nine (9) years in this capacity. The Board
          of Directors of the Company through the Nomination Committee, after having assessed the independence of Tan Sri
          Dato’ Ibrahim, regards him to be independent based amongst others, the following justifications, and recommends
          that Tan Sri Ibrahim be retained as an Independent Director of the Company subject to the approval from the
          shareholders of the Company as described in the Guidance to Practice 5.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate
          Governance:-

          (a) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has fulfilled the definition of an independent director as set out under Paragraph 1.01 of
                  the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements

                  • is not an executive director of the Company or any related corporation of the Company (each corporation
                         is referred to as “said Corporation”);

                  • has not been within the last 2 years and is not an officer (except as a non-executive director) of the
                         said Corporation [“officer” includes a director, secretary, employee, receiver who is also a manager not
                         appointed by the Court, and liquidator not appointed by the Court or creditors];

                  • is not a major shareholder of the said Corporation;
                  • is not a family member of any executive director, officer or major shareholder of the said Corporation;
                  • is not acting as a nominee or representative of any executive director or major shareholder of the said

                         Corporation;
                  • has not been engaged as an adviser by the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed

                         by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director (except as and Independent Director) or major
                         shareholder, as the case may be, of firm or corporation which provides professional advisory services to
                         the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by the Exchange; or
                  • has not engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by
                         the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director or major shareholder, as the case may be, of a firm or
                         corporation (other than subsidiaries of the Company) which has engaged in any transaction with the said
                         Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed by the Exchange;

          (b) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has not been involved in any business or other relationship which could hinder the exercise
                  of independent judgement, objectivity or his ability to act in the best interests of the Company;

          (c) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has no potential conflict of interest, whether business or non-business related with the
                  Company;

          (d) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim has not established or maintained any significant personal or social relationship, whether
                  direct or indirect, with the Group Managing Director, major shareholders or management of the Company
                  (including their family members) other than normal engagements and interactions on a professional level
                  consistent with his duties and expected of him to carry out his duties as an independent director; and

          (e) Tan Sri Dato’ Ibrahim does not derive any remuneration and other benefits apart from Director’s fees and
                  benefits that are approved by shareholders.

6
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                     Annual Report 2022

                                             NOTICE OF
                     ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                       (Cont’d)

Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Eighth AGM (“Meeting”):

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 18 November
       2022 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate,
       speak and vote in his stead.

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate,
       speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
       vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings
       to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed
       to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate,
       speak and vote at the Meeting.

3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized
       in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under
       the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorized.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
       multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
       (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
       appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or
       a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar,
       Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara,
       Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
       set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you
       from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person at the 28th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so,
       provided a notice of termination of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24)
       hours before the commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.

6. Please refer to the Administrative Guide on the Conduct of a Physical General Meeting available for download at
       www.rexmalaysia.com/ for further details.

7. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a
       formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial
       Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.

                                                                                                                                   7
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                 Annual Report 2022

   ADMINSTRATIVE GUIDE

   FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND/OR PROXIES ATTENDING
   THE TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“28TH AGM”)

   INFORMATION ON 28TH AGM

   1. Date, Time, and Venue of 28th AGM

   Day & Date : Tuesday, 29 November 2022

   Time        : 10:00 a.m.

   Venue       : Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf & Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya,

               Selangor Darul Ehsan

   2. Entitlement to Attend

   Only members whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as of 18 November 2022 shall be entitled to attend,
   participate, speak and vote at the 28th AGM or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote on his/her
   behalf in respect of the number of shares registered in his/her name at that mentioned date.

   3.	Lodgement of Form of Proxy of 28th AGM

   (a) If you are unable to attend the 28th AGM and wish to appoint proxy(ies) to vote on your behalf, you may deposit
          your Form of Proxy at the Registered Office of the Company at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
          Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan in accordance with
          the notes and instructions printed therein, not later than forty-eight (48) hours before the 28th AGM, i.e., latest
          by Sunday, 27 November 2022 at 10:00 a.m.

   (b)		If you wish to attend the 28th AGM yourself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy for the 28th AGM. You will
          not be allowed to attend the 28th AGM together with a proxy appointed by you. Only one of you is allowed to
          attend and enter the 28th AGM venue.

   (c)		If you have submitted your Form of Proxy prior to the 28th AGM and subsequently decided to attend the 28th
          AGM yourself, please revoke the appointment of your proxy at the time of registration.

   4. Corporate Member

   Any corporate member who wishes to appoint a representative instead of a proxy to attend the 28th AGM should
   submit the original certificate of appointment under the corporation’s seal to the Company’s Registered Office at
   Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur,
   Wilayah Persekutuan at any time before the time appointed for holding the 28th AGM or to the registration staff on
   the meeting day for the Company’s records.

   5.	Parking

   You may park your vehicle at the allocated visitors’ parking bays.

8
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         Annual Report 2022

                     ADMINSTRATIVE
                                    GUIDE

                                    (Cont’d)

GUIDANCE FOR ATTENDANCE OF 28th AGM

The Company would be most obliged if all attendees were to take all necessary precautions and preventive measures to
curb the spread of COVID-19, including the wearing of a medical face mask, while attending the 28th AGM.

The Company reserves the right to take any precautionary measures as may be required or recommended by the relevant
authorities from time to time and may also be required to change its 28th AGM arrangements at short notice, if required.

As such, prior to attending the 28th AGM, you are to keep abreast with the latest news and updates on the 28th AGM from
the posting on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx or all announcements as well as all
health and safety measures as released by the relevant authorities to the media from time to time.

Attendees are required to read and adhere to the Administrative Guide issued and published on the Company’s website at
www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx.

1.	Pre-Registration of Attendance

       In order to assist the Company in managing the turnout for the 28th AGM and in compliance with the directives
       or guidelines on the conduct of physical general meetings, Shareholders/ Corporate Representatives who wish to
       attend the 28th AGM in person are required to register ahead of the 28th AGM to allow the Company to facilitate
       arrangements in relation to the 28th AGM.

       Shareholders/ Corporate Representatives who wish to attend the 28th AGM in person, please provide the following
       details by email to info@sshsb.com.my, latest by Friday, 25 November 2022 before the 28th AGM:-

       (a) Shareholder / Body corporate name;
       (b) Full name of authorised corporate representative;
       (c) Body corporate no. / Identity card no./ Passport no.;
       (d) CDS account number; and
       (e) Mobile phone number of individual attending.

2. On-the-Day Registration for the 28th AGM

       (a) Notwithstanding the pre-registration as highlighted above, all Shareholders/Proxies/Corporate Representatives
               are still required to physically register their attendance for the 28th AGM on the day of the 28th AGM. Registration
               will start at 9:00 a.m. and end at such time as the Chairman of the meeting may be determined.

       (b) Registration will take place at the registration booths located at the entrance to the 28th AGM. Therefore, you
               are required to queue accordingly.

       (c) Please present your original National Registration Identification Card (“NRIC”) or Passport for verification by
               the Share Registrar against the pre-registration attendance list. Please ensure that you collect your NRIC or
               Passport thereafter.

       (d)		After verification, you are required to write your name and sign on the Attendance List provided by the Share
               Registrar. Thereafter, you will be given an identification wristband.

       (e) No individual will be allowed to enter the meeting hall without the identification wristband. There will be no
               replacement if you lose or misplace the identification wristband.

       (f) No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person, even with the original NRIC or Passport of
               that person.

       (g)		The registration counter is solely for verification of identity and registration purposes.
       (h) All attendees are also required to observe the social distancing rule.
       (i) Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration.

       If you have any enquiries on other matters, please refer to our staff who will be at hand to assist.

                                                                                                                                     9
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                              Annual Report 2022

    ADMINSTRATIVE
    GUIDE

    (Cont’d)

    Circular to Shareholders

    1. The Company’s Circular to Shareholders, Notice of the 28th AGM, Form of Proxy, and Administrative Guide are
           available on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com/bursa_column.aspx and also on Bursa Securities’
           website at www.bursamalaysia.com under “Company Announcements”.

    2. If you wish to request a printed copy of the Circular to Shareholders, please forward your request by completing the
           Requisition Form. A copy of the Circular to Shareholders will be sent to you by ordinary post within four (4) market
           days from the date of receipt of the written request. You may also collect the same at the 28th AGM.

    ENQUIRY

    Should you have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to get in touch with the Share Registrar at their general line +603-
    2084 9000 and/or Fax: +603-2094 9940 / 2095 0292 during office hours:

    For Pre-Registration:

    (1) Mr. Wong Piang Yoong (email: piang.yoong.wong@sshsb.com.my)

    (2) Pn. Nurhayati Ang  (email: nurhayati.ang@sshsb.com.my)

10
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                  Annual Report 2022

                                                                                    CORPORATE
                                                                                  INFORMATION

BOARD OF DIRECTORS                   Tai Keat Chai                        SOLICITORS
                                     Independent Non-Executive Director   Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
Mohd Zain                            Adnan bin Ahmad                      REGISTERED OFFICE
Chairman, Independent                Independent Non-Executive Director
Non-Executive Director                                                    Plot 126,
                                     Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim                 Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,
Darmendran Kunaretnam                Non-Independent Executive Director   14100 Simpang Ampat,
Non-Independent Executive Director,                                       Seberang Perai Tengah,
Group Managing Director              Kajendra Pathmanathan                Penang, Malaysia
                                     Non-Independent Executive Director   Telephone No. : +604-508 8288
Chee Cheng Chun                                                           Facsimile No. : +604-508 8566
Non-Independent Non-Executive                                             Email Address : support@
Director                                                                  		 rexmalaysia.com

AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT            AUDITORS                             STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
COMMITTEE
                                     Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates    Listed on the Main Market of
Tai Keat Chai                        PLT (LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)      Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Chairman                             Chartered Accountants
                                     Unit 3-3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,  Stock Code : 9946
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin       No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,
Mohd Zain                            Mutiara Damansara,                   Stock Name : REX
Member                               47810 Petaling Jaya,
                                     Selangor Darul Ehsan                 Sector  : Consumer
Adnan bin Ahmad                      Telephone No. : +603-7728 1800
Member                               Facsimile No. : +603-7728 9800       		 Products &

                                                                          		 Services

NOMINATION COMMITTEE                 SHARE REGISTRAR

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin       Securities Services (Holdings)
Mohd Zain                            Sdn. Bhd. [197701005827 (36869-T)]
Chairman                             Level 7, Menara Milenium,
                                     Jalan Damanlela,
Tai Keat Chai                        Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Member                               Damansara Heights,
                                     50490 Kuala Lumpur,
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE               Wilayah Persekutuan
                                     Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin       Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940 /
Mohd Zain                            		 +603-2095 0292
Chairman                             Contact Person : Mr. Wong Piang
                                     		 Yoong
Tai Keat Chai
Member                               PRINCIPAL BANKERS

COMPANY SECRETARIES                  United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
                                     Berhad [199301017069 (271809-K)]
Chua Siew Chuan (MAICSA 0777689)
SSM PC No.: 201908002648             Hong Leong Bank Berhad
                                     [193401000023 (97141-X)]
Yeow Sze Min (MAICSA 7065735)
SSM PC No.: 201908003120             Ambank Islamic Berhad
                                     [199401009897 (295576-U)]

                                                                                                                         11
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                          Annual Report 2022

    PROFILE OF
    DIRECTORS

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain

    Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman

    Aged 79  Malaysian   Male

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, aged 79, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 30
    June 2014. He is the Chairman of the Board, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee and a member of the
    Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a graduate from the British Institute of Management and Institute of Marketing, United
    Kingdom, and holds a Masters in Business Administration from the University of Ohio in the United States of America.

    Upon Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s graduation in 1965, he joined University Technology MARA (formerly known as Institute
    of Technology MARA) as a lecturer and headed its school of business and then became its dean of academic. He was
    subsequently appointed as a Council Member/Director, a position which he held until October 2006.

    Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had served as Chief Executive Officer of Amanah International Finance Berhad,
    Amanah Chase Merchant Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Setron
    (Malaysia) Berhad, Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries Berhad, Pan Malaysia Industries
    Berhad, Pan Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan Malaysia Capital Berhad, Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad and Kawan
    Food Berhad, Deputy Chairman of Metrojaya Berhad and Director of K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad and AMMB Holdings
    Berhad.

    Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim sits on the board of Censof Holdings Berhad, a public company and listed issuer.

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
    no conflict of interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic
    offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
    the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had attended four (4) out of five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June
    2022.

    Darmendran Kunaretnam

    Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director

    Aged 61  Malaysian   Male

    Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, aged 61, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company and as the Group
    Managing Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.

    Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia with a Business Degree majoring in Accounting. He is
    also a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He spent
    ten (10) years as Group Manager in the Audit Division of an international public accounting firm from 1985 to 1995.

    Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering & Construction Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the General Manager of
    the Finance and Corporate Planning Division in 1996 and successfully listed Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa
    Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went on to restructure and list Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on Bursa
    Malaysia Securities Berhad in June 1997. He was later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August 1997. In year 2007,
    he, together with his partner, took Safeguards private.

    Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad
    (“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a Non-Executive Director on 26
    February 2009. He was redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August 2009 and continues to hold this position till
    present. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
    December 2016.

    Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
    interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any
    and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
    year ended 30 June 2022.

    Mr. Darmendran had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

12
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                  Annual Report 2022

                                                                                                       PROFILE OF
                                                                                                       DIRECTORS

                                                                                                              (Cont’d)

Chee Cheng Chun

Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

Aged 37              Malaysian          Male

Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, aged 37, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 3 March 2015. Currently,
he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.

Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London with a Master of Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering. He worked as
Business Development Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”) before he was appointed to the Board of
KSTB. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Chee in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December
2016.

Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and other than traffic offences, if any
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.

Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

Tai Keat Chai

Independent Non-Executive Director

Aged 68              Malaysian          Male

Mr. Tai Keat Chai, aged 68, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 6 March 2015. He is the
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration
Committee of the Company.

Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He began his career with KPMG
in London and moved on subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur. In 1981, he joined Alliance Investment Bank Berhad for
seven (7) years before venturing into stock-broking, working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd., AA Anthony Securities Sdn. Bhd.
and Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as General Manager, Director and dealer’s representative respectively.

Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in other public companies and listed issuers include Marine & General Berhad, Microlink
Solutions Berhad and HSS Engineers Berhad.

Mr. Tai has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.

Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

Adnan Bin Ahmad

Independent Non-Executive Director

Aged 72              Malaysian          Male

Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, aged 72, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 12 April 2018. He is a
member of the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company.

Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial Relations. He started his career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan &
Mohamad in 1967. He then joined Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including Head of Human Resource
& Administration and Head of Administration and Regulatory and Premises. He was also the Chairman of Koperasi
Pelaburan Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement on 31 March 2014.

Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December
2016.

Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if
any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2022.

Encik Adnan had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2022.                          13
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                    Annual Report 2022

    PROFILE OF
    DIRECTORS

    (Cont’d)

    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim

    Non-Independent Executive Director

    Aged 62              Malaysian      Male

    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, aged 62, a Malaysian, male, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 11 October 2022, and
    hence, he did not attend any of the Board Meetings held in the financial year. He is also the Chief Executive Officer of Rex
    Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company.

    Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in Management Programme. He has more than thirty (30) years of experience in the
    fast-moving consumer goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and marketing and business re-engineering. Prior to
    joining the Group, he had held various senior sales and marketing positions in companies such as Rothmans of Pall Mall
    Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad and Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head the
    sustainable development division at IRIS Coproration Berhad for five (5) years. He joined the Group in October 2017 as
    the Marketing Director prior to assuming his current role as Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex
    Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company. Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship in other public
    listed companies or listed issuer.

    Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
    interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any,
    and, there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
    year ended 30 June 2022.

    Kajendra Pathmanathan

    Non-Independent Executive Director

    Aged 48              Malaysian      Male

    Mr. Kajendra Pathmanathan, aged 48, a Malaysian, male, is the Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company. He
    was first appointed to the Board of the Company on 11 October 2022, and hence, he did not attend any of the Board
    Meetings held in the financial year.

    Mr. Kajendra holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree and a Bachelor of Law degree, both from The University of Melbourne.
    He is also a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Australia and New Zealand. He started his career with
    Ernst & Young, Kuala Lumpur in 1999 in the Corporate Recovery & Insolvency department and moved to Ernst & Young,
    London in 2008. While with Ernst & Young, he gained a very broad range of experience on a wide variety of clients across
    various industries in Asia and Europe. He has extensive experience in leading strategic independent business reviews and
    in advising stakeholders on significant restructuring of public and private companies. From 2013 to 2022, he worked with
    BRDB Developments Sdn. Bhd. and within BRDB Group of Companies.

    Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Kajendra in other public companies is Mieco Chipboard Berhad.

    Mr. Kajendra has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of
    interest with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if
    any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
    year ended 30 June 2022.

14
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                  Annual Report 2022

                                                                         PROFILE OF
                                                   KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT

Chia Hup Tong

Chief Financial Officer of Rex Industry Berhad

Aged 45              Malaysian  Male

Mr. Chia Hup Tong, aged 45, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company on 23
September 2021.

Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He started his career in the audit industry,
where he gained audit and accounting experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad, a company providing
services to the oil & gas industry in 2006 as Accountant responsible for overall finance and corporate functions. Prior to
joining the Group, he was a Group Accountant of Safeguards Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charged of the overall
group finance, accounts and compliance for six (6) years. He joined the Company on 1 May 2021 as Finance Manager of
P.T. Rex Canning before was promoted as Chief Financial Officer.

Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.

Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.

Chu Seang Ming

General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia

Aged 56              Malaysian  Male

Mr. Chu Seang Ming, aged 56, a Malaysian, male, was appointed as the General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, a subsidiary
of the Company, on 1 May 1998.

Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration, Marketing from Washington International University and various
certifications, which include Indonesia Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994), FDA/USDA Better Process
Control School, Indonesia (1995), NOAA – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000) and HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia
(2000).

Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food manufacturer based in Perak as a Factory Quality Controller where he
undertook laboratory quality control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a
subsidiary of the Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as its
Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was tasked with establishing and setting up a new processing plant
and operations for the Rex Group in People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods
Ltd. Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of the general management of P.T. Rex Canning.

Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.

Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.

Ng Sioh Ching

Senior Plant Manager of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.

Aged 47              Malaysian  Female

Ms. Ng Sioh Ching, aged 47, a Malaysian, female, was appointed as the Senior Plant Manager of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.,
as subsidiary of the company on 1 July 2021.

Ms. Ng graduated with a Degree in Food Science. She started her career as quality controller in Rex Canning in 2000. She
has 10 years’ experience in quality control for canned food processing. She then undertook operations task and canned
food, beverage and confectionery processing before she was promoted as Senior Plant Manager.

Ms. Ng does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.

Ms. Ng has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest
with the Group. She has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic offences, if any and
there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 30 June 2022.

                                                                                                                                       15
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the importance of
    practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and to protect and
    enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”).

    The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to provide an
    overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set out in the Malaysian Code
    on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3) key principles, under the stewardship
    of the Board:-

    (a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
    (b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
    (c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.

    This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
    Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG Report of the Company
    for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”) published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

    I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

              Intended Outcome 1.0

              Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership and is
              collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.

           1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group Managing
                   Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group with the support of a
                   senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the operations, issues faced and action
                   plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast on the conduct, business activities and development
                   of the Company and to discuss and advise the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term
                   and long-term business strategies. Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the
                   objectives to be met and how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are
                   efficiently and effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s values
                   and standards.

                   To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
                   responsibilities to three (3) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee
                   (“ARMC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”) and Remuneration Committee (“RC”). The Board Committees assist
                   the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions and
                   terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved by the Board.
                   The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions
                   deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.

16
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       1.1 (Cont’d)

               To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the Company during
               the FYE 2022, the Board had, amongst others:-

               (a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
                      behaviour;

               (b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and monitored their
                      implementation by the Management;

               (c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes strategies
                      on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;

               (d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is being properly
                      managed;

               (e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
               (f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to ensure that

                      the risks are properly managed;
               (g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key positions;
               (h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with stakeholders; and
               (i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.

       1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive Director
               (“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group and to
               monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.

               Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-

               (a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for the
                      Board decisions;

               (b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged constructive
                      discussions and effective contribution from each Director;

               (c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
                      deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;

               (d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance practices within
                      the Group;

               (e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely expressed;
               (f) chaired the extraordinary general meeting of the Company held on 27 May 2022 and committed to answer

                      queries from the shareholders;
               (g) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and that their

                      views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and improvement, if any;
               (h) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth communication

                      flow between both parties; and
               (i) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability and in any

                      marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.

       1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with clear
               accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to ensure a balance of
               power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of decision making.

               The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight of Management
               as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has overall responsibilities over the
               business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and implementation of the Board’s policies and
               decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in the Company’s Board Charter.

                                                                                                                                   17
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

    I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

           1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the RC and a member of ARMC and NC.

                   The Board takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered its Committees’
                   composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate governance requirements,
                   recommendations, and best practices, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim will continue to be part of the Board
                   Committees. The Board is convinced that the presence of the other members in the Board Committees would
                   still create a good balance for open and free discussions.

           1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries, namely Ms.
                   Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per Section 235(2)(a) of
                   the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association of the Institute of Chartered
                   Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).

                   The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                   with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by a dedicated team of
                   secretarial personnel.

                   During the FYE 2022, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities accordingly.
                   They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the capital market, CG, and
                   other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory environment through continuous training and
                   industry updates.

                   The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the Board in
                   discharging their functions and duties.

           1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members to reserve their
                   dates for the meetings. During the FYE 2022, the Management together with the assistance of the Company
                   Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business days in advance in
                   accordance with the Company’s Constitution.

                   Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and accurate
                   record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the Company Secretaries
                   to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their review and for them to seek for
                   clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board or Board Committee meeting.

                   Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the Board or
                   Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of the Company to be
                   made available for inspection.

                   The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate information to
                   the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge their duties and
                   responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting materials are circulated at
                   least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.

18
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

          Intended Outcome 2.0

          There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.

          There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.

       2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October 2018 and
               includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details the responsibilities
               of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management limitations, as well as an outline on
               what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles and responsibilities as Board Members. With
               this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of the Directors and the Management are clearly set out
               in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.

               The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

               The TOR of the ARMC was approved by the Board on 19 November 2019 for adoption.

               The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and matters
               deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee meetings and
               reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the Board during Board
               meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.

               The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.

               Activities of the NC

               During the FYE 2022, the NC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-

               (i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NC meetings held;
               (ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character, experience,

                      integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a comprehensive
                      assessment system;
               (iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees;
               (iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
               (v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
               (vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring independent
                      and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
               (vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
                      (“AGM”); and
               (viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.

               During the FYE 2022, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes of deliberating
               on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important matters. During the
               Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group and other strategic issues
               that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members were invited to attend some of
               the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.

               The NC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee meetings.
               Upon review, the NC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time and effort to
               attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2022.

                                                                                                                                   19
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                        Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
    I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

           2.1 (Cont’d)
                   The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2022 is set out below:-

    Directors                   Directorship  Board           ARMC                        NC      RC
    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim      INED       4/5              4/5                       2/2     1/1
    bin Mohd Zain                              5/5
    Tai Keat Chai                   INED       5/5              5/5                       2/2     1/1
    Adnan bin Ahmad                 INED       5/5              5/5                     Not a   Not a
                                                                                       member  member
    Darmendran Kunaretnam            Non-      5/5            Not a                     Not a   Not a
    Chee Cheng Chun             Independent                  member                    member  member

                                 Executive                    Not a                     Not a   Not a
                                   Director                  member                    member  member

                                 Non-INED

    In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance their
    skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.

    The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-

    • All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed by the
           MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;

    • All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their knowledge
           on the latest regulatory and business environment; and

    • The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.

    Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education would be
    the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to
    meet the challenges ahead.

    During the FYE 2022, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-

    Name of Directors                    Dates                         Description of
    Tai Keat Chai               16 - 17 March 2022                Training Programmes

                                  29 March 2022               Emotional Quotient Seminar

                                                             Governance Structure Webinar

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam and Mr. Chee
    Cheng Chun did not attend any structured training programme during the financial year ended 30 June 2022 but
    had continuously kept themselves abreast of the relevant developments in the marketplace through the updates
    and briefings by the Company Secretaries such as the 2021 CG Monitor Report released by the Securities
    Commission of Malaysia, as well as briefings by the Internal Auditors and External Auditors, communications
    with other Directors, and daily work exposures throughout the year.

20
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

          Intended Outcome 3.0

          The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture that
          engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.

          The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered acceptable
          behaviour and practice in the Company.

       3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-

               • Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
                      behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and

               • Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
                      based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.

               Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.

               The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

       3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a Whistleblowing Policy to facilitate the Company’s employees
               and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud, waste of the Company’s
               resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.

               Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should be made in
               good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are substantially true and the
               report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will be viewed seriously and if proven may
               lead to legal action and/or dismissal.

               During the FYE 2022, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
               abovementioned communication and feedback channels.

               The Board had also adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to ensure the Company’s daily
               operations and businesses do not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or benefit.

               The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and corruption
               pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the 2018 amendment to
               prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.

               The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

                                                                                                                                 21
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

    I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

              Intended Outcome 4.0

              The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic manner to support
              its long-term strategy and success.

           4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term value.

                   The Company had established a Sustainable Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing governance
                   structure in relation to sustainability.

                   The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership
                   of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group.
                   Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group MD, who also chairs
                   the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.

                   The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the upcoming
                   financial years as follows:-

                   (a) To perform studies of what are being practiced by peers in similar industry
                   (b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from

                          all relevant departments/functions.
                   (c) To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-

                          - Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
                          - Influence on the assessments and decision of stakeholder.
                   (d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.
                   (e) With reference to data collected from (a) to (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”),
                          to allow the Group continuously measure and monitor the sustainability performance and adherence to
                          the sustainability practices and policies.

                   All sustainability-related activities undertaken by the Company have been disclosed in the Sustainability
                   Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.

           4.2 The Board acknowledges the importance of communicating the Company’s sustainability strategies, priorities,
                   and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.

                   The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s sustainability
                   strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures include a comprehensive
                   description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and efforts. The complete information of
                   the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from the Group’s annual report and is accessible from the
                   corporate website at http://www.rexmalaysia.com/.

           4.3 The Board will take part in initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the Group and the
                   industry. The Board will also take the necessary steps to undertake professional training, development
                   programs, and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will include climate-related risks
                   and opportunities.

22
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. BOARD COMPOSITION

          Intended Outcome 5.0

          Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account diverse
          perspectives and insights.

       5.1 The Nomination Committee (“NC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s structure, size, and composition
               regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with regard to changes that are deemed necessary.
               When recommending to the Board, NC will consider the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity,
               time commitment, and diversity, where appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.

               During the FYE 2022, the NC assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
               committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.

               The NC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on competency,
               preparedness, and contributions. In enhancing the NC process by the Board, with the recommendation of NC,
               a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy had been adopted on 27 May 2022.

       5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-INED and three (3) Non-Independent Executive
               Director.

               The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate a balanced
               leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to safeguard the interests of the
               Company and its stakeholders.

       5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set out in the
               Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director may continue to serve
               on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify and obtain shareholders’ approval for
               his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on the Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.

       		The Company will seek approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin
               Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014.

       5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years, being
               a step-up practice.

       5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer greater
               depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management level.

       		The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of senior
               management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven by any age, cultural
               background or gender considerations.

               At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of both males and female who are equipped
               with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business direction on the Group.

       5.6		The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when the need
               arises in the future and will not solely rely onrecommendations from existing Board members, Management,
               and/or major shareholders.

       5.7 The NC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before tabling at the
               General Meeting for voting. The information on the appointment and reappointment of directors will be shared
               with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.

                                                                                                                                  23
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

    II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

           5.8 The NC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the annual review
                   of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of each individual Director is
                   independently assessed.

           5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy, the Board practices
                   non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports the representation of
                   women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the Company.

           		Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when vacancies
                   arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary aim of selecting the best
                   candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.

                   The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome. Nonetheless, the
                   Board would ensure at least one (1) female Director is appointed by 1 June 2023.

           5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned with the
                   Company’s objectives:-

                   (i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior management
                          will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are identified.

                   (ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members. In view that
                          the existing Board comprises majority of the INEDs who have distinguished themselves in their respective
                          fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives during board deliberation
                          and decision-making process.

                   The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome. Nonetheless, the
                   Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.

              Intended Outcome 6.0

              Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual Directors.

           6.1 During the FYE 2022, the Board, through the NC, had conducted the following annual assessments to determine
                   the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in the financial year ended
                   30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”):-

                   (i) Directors’ self-assessment;
                   (ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
                   (iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
                   (iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
                   (v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.

                   Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2022, the NC was satisfied with the performance of
                   the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.

24
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                   Annual Report 2022

                                                      CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                           OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

III. REMUNERATION

          Intended Outcome 7.0

          The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account the Company’s
          desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to drive the Company’s long-
          term objectives.

          Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.

       7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred by the RC
               in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Directors or Group MD, Non-Executive Director and
               other senior management personnel.

       7.2 Currently, the RC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is presently
               chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The RC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
               duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 18 October 2018.

          Intended Outcome 8.0

          Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management is commensurate
          with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s performance.

       8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2022 in the Company and Group
               levels respectively, is as follows:-

               (i) Company Level

                                 Salaries     Directors’ Statutory  Benefits-   Bonus and
                                other and                              in-kind  allowances
                            emoluments        Fees Contribution          (RM)
                                                                                        (RM)
Name of Director                      (RM)    (RM)    (RM)
Executive Director
Darmendran Kunaretnam                      –  –       –             –           –
Total                                      –
                                              –       –             –           –

Non-Executive Director

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim  –                 17,010  –             –           1,000

bin Mohd Zain

Tai Keat Chai               –                 24,000  –             –           1,500

Adnan bin Ahmad             –                 12,600  –             –           1,500

Chee Cheng Chun             –                 12,600  –             –           1,500

Total                       –                 66,210  –             –           5,500

                                                                                                                             25
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                               Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
    III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)

           8.1 (Cont’d)
                   (ii) Group Level

                                     Salaries   Directors’ Statutory  Benefits-   Bonus and
                                    other and                            in-kind  allowances
                                emoluments      Fees Contribution          (RM)
                                                                                          (RM)
    Name of Director                      (RM)  (RM)          (RM)
    Executive Director
    Darmendran Kunaretnam             808,608   –             54,940  –           95,052
    Total                            808,608
                                                –             54,940  –           95,052

    Non-Executive Director

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim  –               41,310        –       –           1,500

    bin Mohd Zain

    Tai Keat Chai               –               72,000        –       –           2,000

    Adnan bin Ahmad             –               30,600        –       –           2,000

    Chee Cheng Chun             –               30,600        –       –           2,000

    Total                       –               174,510       –       –           7,500

    8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management staff on
           a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the Group taking into consideration the
           competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the
           privacy of senior management staff.

    PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

    I. AUDIT COMMITTEE

              Intended Outcome 9.0

              There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.

              The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The Company’s
              financial statements are a reliable source of information.

           9.1 During the FYE 2022, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman of the Board
                   is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the Board’s
                   review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.

           9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may arise when
                   a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and preparation of
                   the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies and Procedures to Assess
                   the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require a former key audit partner of the
                   Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year cooling-off period before being appointed as
                   a member of the ARMC.

                   During the FYE 2022, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to uphold the
                   utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit partner as a member of
                   the ARMC or Board.

26
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)

I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)

       9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of
               External Auditors’ that sets out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability,
               objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.

               In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has considered the
               following:-

               (a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation to the
                      audit;

               (b) Persons assigned to the audit;
               (c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
               (d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a timely

                      manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
               (e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of fees; and
               (f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been, independent

                      throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional
                      and regulatory requirements.

               The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective and independent
               to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board has in turn recommended the same for
               shareholders’ approval at the Twenty-Eighth (“28th”) AGM of the Company.

       9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.

       9.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding of the
               Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the financial reporting process.

               The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and fair view of
               the Company’s financial position and performance.

               All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous professional
               development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and auditing standards,
               practices and rules as and when required.

                                                                                                                                 27
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                        Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)

    II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

    Intended Outcome 10.0

    Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement necessary controls
    to pursue their objectives.

    The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable future event
    or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.

    10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify, assess and
           monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets by monitoring
           the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external auditors and the outsourced internal
           auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control processes and procedures
           periodically to ensure that the system is viable and robust.

    With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk management
    and internal control.

    10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised the results
           of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment process of the Group.

    The deliverables included in the internal audit reports had been discussed with the senior management of
    the Group. The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus areas
    of the Group. The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of the Board and
    Management of the Company.

    10.3 The Board had on 30 September 2019 approved the renaming of the AC to ARMC, which comprises solely
           Independent Directors, to assist the Board in discharging the responsibilities and duties relating to accounting
           and reporting practices as well as to monitor the overall risk management framework, the financial reporting
           processes, the compliance processes, the performances of external and internal auditors and overseeing the
           audit program of the Group.

    Intended Outcome 11.0

    Companies have an effective governance, risk management and internal control framework and stakeholders
    are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.

    11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield Corporate
           Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable assurance of
           adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.

    The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of the Company’s
    compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further improvement.

    During the FYE 2022, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency
    and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2022 and that they have the necessary authority
    to carry out their work.

    The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of the Company
    and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is satisfactory and operating
    effectively.

    11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the internal
           audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair their
           objectivity and independence.

    The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a university

    degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The Engagement Partner,

    Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk management and corporate

28  governance advisory.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS

I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS

          Intended Outcome 12.0

          There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding
          of each other’s objectives and expectations.

          Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its policies on
          governance, the environment and social responsibility.

       12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication to the investing
               public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group are accurate, timely, factual,
               informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary, information filed with regulators is in
               accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

               The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated spokespersons
               will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow of information disclosure
               to the stakeholders.

               The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders through
               a variety of communication channels as follows:-

               (a) Announcements to Bursa Securities

                      Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis through
                      announcements to Bursa Securities.

                      Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly financial
                      results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via the Company’s
                      website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

               (b) Annual reports

                      The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating to
                      the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for the past
                      financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.

               (c) AGM/ general meetings

                      The AGM/ general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise any issues
                      pertaining to the Company.

               (d) Corporate website

                      The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company and is
                      accessible by the public.

               (e) Investor relations

                      Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they have any
                      comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the Company’s general email
                      address.

       12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated reporting based
               on a globally recognised framework.

                                                                                                                                      29
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
    STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)

    II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS

              Intended Outcome 13.0

              Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and make informed
              voting decisions at general meetings.

           13.1 The Board together with the management are committed to ensuring that the notice of every AGM of the
                   Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the meeting. For the 27th AGM,
                   the company managed to circulate the notice of the AGM at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the
                   meeting.

                   The Board is aware that sufficient notice and time given would allow the shareholders to arrange their time
                   to participate in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their proxies and corporate
                   representatives for the AGM.

                   The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable shareholders to
                   make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.

           13.2 During the 27th AGM of the Company held on 29 November 2021, one (1) out of five (5) directors was not able
                   to attend the AGM due to personal reasons. The other directors together with the Chief Financial Controller,
                   Company Secretary and External Auditors participated in the 27th AGM to provide meaningful responses to
                   questions raised by the shareholders.

                   During the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) held on 27 May 2022, all the board members managed to
                   participate to engage with the shareholders effectively.

           13.3 Given the intense situation with the Covid-19 pandemic and safe distancing requirements imposed by the
                   Government, which discourages mass gatherings, the Board had conducted the 27th AGM of the Company held
                   on 29 November 2021 on a fully virtual basis to enable the shareholders of the Company to participate fully in
                   the proceedings at more than one (1) venue using technology facilities and to exercise their right to speak and
                   vote at the meeting without the need to be physically present at the venue. Where the shareholders were not
                   able to participate, they could and had appointed proxies to participate and vote on their behalf.

                   However, with the relaxation of Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, the EGM held on 27 May 2022 was conducted
                   physically to encourage face-to-face discussions with shareholders and stakeholders after not being able to
                   do this for more than 2 years. All necessary precautions were taken to minimise any potential transmission of
                   Covid-19.

           13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform of interaction between the Board, Senior
                   Management, and the shareholders of the Company. The Board ensures that shareholders are given the
                   opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.

                   At every general meeting of the Company, the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer, external
                   auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide greater responses to all
                   shareholders’ queries.

                   The Chairman also has ensured that all questions raised during general meetings would be getting responses
                   either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The responses would be published on the
                   corporate website after the general meetings.

30
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                  Annual Report 2022

                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                          OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                     (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)

II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS (CONT’D)

       13.5 During the 27th AGM, the Company had appointed SS E Solutions Sdn Bhd. as the service provider of Remote
               Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities via the Securities Services e-Portal (“SSeP”). SSeP is an all-in solution
               for facilitating RPV at meetings.

               At the 27th AGM, the Chairman informed that shareholders may exercise their rights to vote remotely at the
               meeting.

               The Group Managing Director answered questions posed by shareholders verbally during the meeting and via
               email after the meeting ended to ensure effective communication with shareholders at the virtual meeting.

       13.6 The Minutes of the 27th AGM held on 29 November 2021 are available on the corporate website at www.
               rexmalaysia.com and were published no later than thirty (30) business days after the AGM.

       The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly approved at the
       Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 11 October 2022.

                                                                                                                                      31
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  Annual Report 2022

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    INTRODUCTION

    Acknowledging that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change, the Board of Directors (“Board”) is
    pleased to present the Group’s Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“the Statement”), which
    has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability
    Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

    This statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking to embrace
    sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.

    This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis and we are committed to further it, specifically on the material
    sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are also laying out the
    action plan to do so in this Statement.

    SCOPE

    This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-
    • Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd
    • Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
    • Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
    • Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd

    And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.

    Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to:-
    • Manufacturing of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
    • Trading / sales of canned food, drinks and confectionaries.
    • Trading of manufactured biscuit

    Collectively, the above contributed to approximately 45% of the Group’s total revenue. And our reporting period is from 1
    July 2021 to 30 June 2022, unless otherwise stated.

    GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS

    Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure in relation
    to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is chaired by our Group
    Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department i.e.:-
    • Finance
    • Sales and Marketing
    • Procurement
    • Manufacturing
    • Warehouse and Logistics

    The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of the
    ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The Board is ultimately
    accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also chairs the SWG, being
    tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.

32
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                       Annual Report 2022

GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (CONT’D)                                 SUSTAINABILITY
The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-                 STATEMENT

BOARD OF Board of    Audit AND RISK                                                          (Cont’d)
DIRECTORS Directors  Management
                     Committee                                     Sustainability
                                                                   Working Group

                                                                   Head of Departments:-
                                                                   • Finance
                                                                   • Sales and Marketing
                                                                   • Procurement
                                                                   • Manufacturing
                                                                   • Warehouse and Logistics

SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY

We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As part of
our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that, while running the business
effectively, we are also committed to contribution to the larger community. The 4 Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-

                     Environment

Supplier                                                           Community

                     Employees

                                                                                                                                  33
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                       Annual Report 2022

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT

    We have identified and prioritised the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these stakeholders
    over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters with the respective
    stakeholders prioritised, as illustrated below:-

    Stakeholders  Engagement Platforms                                        Engagement Matters
    Shareholders
                  • Annual General Meeting                                    • Dividend
                  • Financial statements                                      • Return on investment
                  • Press releases/announcements                              • Financial performance
                                                                              • Share performance
    Board of Directors •            Board meetings
                                 •  Annual General Meeting                    • Corporate Governance
                                 •  Company organised events                  • Company business strategy

    Employees     •                 Orientation training                      • Occupational safety & health
                                    Learning and development programmes       • Human resource management
                  •                 Employee performance appraisal            • Fair employment practices
                                    Corporate organised events                • Career development opportunities
                  •
                                    Ongoing interactions                      • Manufacturing issues and policies
                  •                 Formal and informal meetings              • Foods safety issues and policies
                                                                              • Effluent & waste management
    Government /  •                                                           • Water & energy management
                                                                              • Compliance to applicable laws
    Regulators    •                                                           • Economic, environmental and

    Customers     • Face-to-face interaction                                         social impacts
                  • Feedback survey
                                                                              • Manufacturing quality
    Suppliers     •                 Interviews                                • Manufacturing capacity
                                    Evaluations/Re-evaluations                • Research & Development
                  •                 Face-to-face interaction
                                                                              • Agreeable contracts
                  •                 Corporate volunteering programmes         • Terms of payments
                                    (e.g. community events, knowledge         • Maintaining partnerships
    Local communities •             -sharing initiatives & partnerships with
                                    non-governmental organisations)           • Support towards community development
                                                                              • Job creation for local communities
                                                                              • Undertaking business in a responsible

                                                                                     manner

34
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         Annual Report 2022

                     SUSTAINABILITY
                           STATEMENT

                                    (Cont’d)

MATERIALITY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS

We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material sustainability
matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a role.

A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not been finalised
for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.

The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the coming financial
years:-

(a) To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.

(b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures, and gather inputs from all relevant
       departments/functions.

(c) To prioritize the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
       o Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
       o Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

(d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.

(e) With reference to data collected from (a) and (b) above, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
       the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
       practices and policies.

SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS

Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current efforts in relation to the
Material Sustainability Matters are set out below:-

Economic

A.	Product Quality and Safety

       We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our products that are
       safe for consumption.

       We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such as
       Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”) and
       Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attained the Halal MS
       1500:2009 certification.

       We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which have
       clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the Group’s product
       quality and safety.

                                                                                                                                 35
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  Annual Report 2022

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (CONT’D)

    Environment

    A. Effluent and waste management

           Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would potentially
           end up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the waste water treatment
           plant (WWT) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried out on the WWT to cater for the increase
           in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater
           discharged is within the Department of Environment’s wastewater effluent discharge standards.

    B. Energy consumption

           Since March 2019, our Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility had switched to natural gas to fuel our boilers.

           Benefits included eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the life spans of the
           boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in, gas is better insulated
           against supply disruptions.

    Social

    A. Workplace Safety & Health

           We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the foundation
           of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety and Health Act
           (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FAM”) 1997 are adhered to.

           Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are well aware of their
           significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated throughout the
           Group.

    B. Human resource management

           Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high calibre
           employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent and dedicated talent
           pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and performance
           enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.

           For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered to
           as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as general public in the form of quality
           products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.

    C. Contribution to local community

           Similar to previous years, as part of good corporate citizenship program, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of
           REX’s products which carry the “Love Rex” logo goes to support the various disabled and underprivileged groups in
           our society.

           Throughout FYE 2022, we continue to support 3 homes for the underprivileged in the Klang Valley while under the
           REX CARE program, over 1,000 deserving families throughout the country were provided food baskets.

36
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                        Annual Report 2022

                                                       AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                      REPORT

The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”) in
discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting practices as well as
corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).

1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC

       During the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as follows, all of
       whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s
       Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and as recommended by Step Up Practice
       9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the Audit Committee comprises solely Independent
       Directors:-

Name                                      Designation                 Directorship
Tai Keat Chai                              Chairman    Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain    Member     Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad                             Member     Independent Non-Executive Director

The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the
requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements.

Neither any of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore
Stephens Associates PLT in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any financial interest
in Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT.

2. MEETING ATTENDANCE

       The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2022. The details of the attendance of the respective ARMC
       members are as follows:-

Name                                                   No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai                                                        5 of 5
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                             4 of 5
Adnan bin Ahmad                                                      5 of 5

* The Meetings were held on 17 August 2021, 8 October 2021, 29 November 2021, 28 January 2022 and 27 May
       2022.

The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2022, wherein the
ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2022, which was as required in the Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC
whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External Auditors should be conducted annually.

3. TOR
       The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

                                                                                                                               37
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  Annual Report 2022

    AUDIT COMMITTEE
    REPORT

    (Cont’d)

    4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC

           During the FYE 2022, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties, functions and
           responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-

           Financial performance and reporting

           (a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial quarters
                   ended 30 June 2021, 30 September 2021, 31 December 2021 and 31 March 2022, and recommended the same
                   to the Board for approval.

           (b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of the Group
                   on quarterly basis.

           (c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2021 (“FYE 2021”) to
                   ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
                   position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act
                   2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, and recommended the same to the
                   Board for approval.

           External audit

           (a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and management
                   personnel.

           (b) Received the ARMC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2021, covering matters
                   to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.

           (c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2022 prepared by the External
                   Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit matters and areas of audit
                   emphasis and accounting standard updates.

           (d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2022, and recommended the same to the
                   Board for approval.

           (e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-

                   • Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
                   • Review of component auditors’ working papers.

           (f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2022 vide a
                   formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review and being satisfied
                   with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the Board to recommend to the
                   shareholders for approval.

           (g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.

           Internal audit

           (a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to those
                   recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were taken and
                   recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.

           (b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit functions vide
                   a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its work.

           (c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2022 as prepared by the Internal Auditors.

38
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD               Annual Report 2022

                     AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                    REPORT

                                        (Cont’d)

4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)

       Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)

       (a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to ensure
               that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Seventh Annual General
               Meeting of the Company held on 29 November 2021.

       (b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder
               Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares, and
               recommended the same to the Board for approval.

       Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control

       (a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company, and
               recommended the same to the Board for approval.

       (b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement, and
               recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2021 Annual Report.

       Other matters

       (a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s peer
               performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of office and
               performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they have carried out their
               duties properly in accordance to the TOR.

       (b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the ARMC.

       (c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.

5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

       The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service provider
       to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective internal control and
       governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is satisfactory and operating
       effectively.

       The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-

       (a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;

       (b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved audit plan:-

               • Control over payroll for PT Rex Canning, Indonesia

       (c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The reports
               highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations for improvements;
               and

       (d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported the same
               to the ARMC.

       The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2022 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any material
       losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.

       The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 was RM8,120.00.

                                                                                                                                      39
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                     Annual Report 2022

    STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements under
    paragraph 15.26(a).

    The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company and its
    subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
    Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as to give a true and fair view of the
    state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results and cash flows for the year then ended.

    The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022:-

    • the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
    • reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
    • all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
    • the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

    The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
    time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
    Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016 is set out
    in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited
    financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

    The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the Group are
    released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public informed of the
    Group’s latest performance and developments.

    The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are reasonably
    available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities and material
    misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
    misstatement, loss or fraud.

40
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                     Annual Report 2022

                     STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                    AND INTERNAL CONTROL

This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of Rex Industry
Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2022 pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and
endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.

The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased to set out below its
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of risk management and internal
control of the Group during the year.

The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management and
internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and
regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated
and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and provide some reasonable but
not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are safeguarded against material losses and
unauthorised use and that the financial statements are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated
in a systematic manner.

The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority and
appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered by the Board and shall be
responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting the achievement of business
objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process. All
significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.

The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the Group include:

1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee,
       Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas of
       responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;

2. Involvement of the Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance at operational and
       management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and procedures. The Managing Director
       has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic issues and challenges affecting the respective business
       units with the heads of business units. Significant matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the
       Board on a timely basis; and

3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the Group by the
       Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief Financial Officer on quarterly basis;

The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service provider
that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach in identifying major
operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking into consideration corporate
exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry out reviews on areas which are identified
by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the control processes to address
the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the control processes, where appropriate.

The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed appropriate
within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk Management Committee
with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action taken by Management to ensure
adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess
implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal control
implemented. During the financial year, the Internal Auditors reviewed the controls over payroll in the Indonesian subsidiary.
Their report has been presented to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.

                                                                                                                                            41
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD           Annual Report 2022

    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
    AND INTERNAL CONTROL

    (Cont’d)

    The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies of the Group.
    Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees the risk management
    process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at subsidiary level.

    Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:

    • Identification of risks by the process owners
    • Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
    • Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
    • Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
    • Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks

    The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has not resulted in
    any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the Group during the financial
    year under review or requires disclosure in the 2022 Annual Report. Nevertheless, the Board recognises the review and
    improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control is an on-going process to accommodate
    evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal
    control of the Group could be closely managed, monitored and improved over time.

    Conclusion

    The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprises the respective frameworks, procedures,
    management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered appropriate. While the Board
    acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not eliminate the possibility of collusion or
    deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might
    result in poor judgment, an assurance was received from the Group Managing Director and Group Financial Officer that the
    risk management and internal control system of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues to
    take measures to enhance and strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.

    Review of the Statement by External Auditors

    The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the financial
    year ended 30 June 2022. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”)
    3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management
    and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”)). AAPG 3 does not require the external
    auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the
    adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control procedures. AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors
    to consider whether the processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems
    disclosed in the Annual Report will, in fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have
    reported to the Board that nothing has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this
    Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and
    integrity of the risk management and internal control system.

    This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 11 October 2022.

42
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                      Annual Report 2022

                                          ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
                                                           INFORMATION

In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following information is
provided:-

1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals

       (a) Renounceable Rights Issue of 246,626,468 Rights Shares

               The Company had on 15 December 2020 completed the above Renounceable Rights Issue of 246,626,468
               Rights Shares on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Renounceable Rights Issue had
               raised gross proceeds of RM24,662,647, which had been fully utilised during the financial year ended 30 June
               2022.

       (b) Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex (“Rights Share(s)”) on the basis of 1
               Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together with 54,805,881 free detachable warrants in Rex
               (“Warrant(s)”) on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed (“Proposed Rights Issue with
               Warrants”)

               The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants. The
               Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765. The status of the utilisation of
               proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows:-

Details of utilisation       Proposed       Actual                            Balance       Estimated
Business expansion           Utilisation  Utilisation                         (RM’000)    Timeframe for
                             (RM’000)     (RM’000)
                                                                               10,000       Utilisation
                               10,000          –
                                                                                        Within 18 months

Working capital              5,882        (2,221)                             3,661     Within 12 months

Expenses for this              560         (560)                                 –
corporate exercise           16,442       (2,781)                             13,661

Total

2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

During the FYE 2022, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has rendered certain audit and
non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as follows:-

Item                                                                                    Company        Group
Audit services rendered                                                                       (RM)       (RM)
Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2022
Non-audit services rendered                                                                60,000    221,363
(a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control
(b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers                                             8,000      8,000
Total                                                                                             –    29,677
                                                                                                     259,040
                                                                                           68,000

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ interests or
are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2022.

                                                                                                                             43
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD    Annual Report 2022

    MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
    & ANALYSIS

    Our History and Business

    Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by the name of
    Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Rex Canning Co. Sdn
    Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding company in conjunction with the
    listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”). The Company changed its name to Rex Industry
    Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present
    name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.

    Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning Co. Sdn
    Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading manufacturer, distributor
    and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. PT Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began
    commercial operations in August 1992; with principal activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed
    seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. The
    majority of PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the US and EU.

    Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing population.

    Our Policy

    Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They are
    implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance with local and
    international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.

    Financial Performance

    For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2022, the Group recorded revenue of RM161.11 million which represents an
    increase of approximately RM0.57 million as compared to the preceding financial year of RM160.54 million. The increase
    in revenue was mainly due to higher revenue contribution from the local subsidiaries.

    The Group recorded lower profit before tax of RM2.93 million for the FYE 30 June 2022 as compared to the profit before
    tax of RM3.91 million incurred in the preceding financial year. This was attributable to the escalating costs of material and
    labour combined with the effect of a weakening Ringgit that impacted local subsidiaries’ cost of purchases. This was partly
    offset by the reversal of impairment loss on other receivables and inventories obsolescence as well as gain on disposal of
    property, plant and equipment in the current financial year.

44
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                     Annual Report 2022

                                                      MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                            & ANALYSIS

                                                                                        (Cont’d)

Financial Performance (CONT’D)

REX GROUP                    			

(All in RM’000) 			                                   FY 2020    FY 2021    FY 2022

Revenue                   			                         149,245    160,539    161,111

(Loss)/Profit before tax        			                   (8,396)    3,912      2,934

The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and deliver
satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.

Financial Highlights

                                30 Jun 18  30 Jun 19  30 Jun 20  30 Jun 21  30 Jun 22
                                   RM’000     RM’000     RM’000     RM’000     RM’000

Statement of Profit and Loss

Revenue                         130,324    136,609    149,245    160,539    161,111

(Loss)/Profit before Tax after  (15,095)   (14,317)   (8,396)    3,912      2,934
 Minority Interest

Interest expense                1,539      1,905      2,050      1,531      1,171

(Loss)/Profit after Tax and     (15,153)   (13,297)   (9,465)    2,603      2,027
 Minority Interest

Dividend declared               –          –          –          (987)      –

Statement of Financial Position					

Paid-up Share Capital           73,742     73,742     73,742     97,903     97,903

Shareholders Funds              126,422    113,672    101,891    127,404    129,714

Borrowings                      29,946     36,472     42,209     28,884     27,804

Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”)     118,533    106,635    94,854     120,367    122,677

                                                                                                                   45
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                               Annual Report 2022

    MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
    & ANALYSIS

    (Cont’d)

    Financial Performance (CONT’D)

    Financial Ratio

                                           30 Jun 18    30 Jun 19  30 Jun 20  30 Jun 21                     30 Jun 22
                                              RM’000       RM’000     RM’000     RM’000                        RM’000

    Investment Ratio

    NTA per share                          0.48         0.43       0.38                               0.24  0.25

    					

    Basic (Loss)/Earnings Per Share (Sen)  (8.05)       (5.39)     (3.84)                             0.64  0.38

    Dividend per share (sen)               –            –          –                                  0.2   –

    Operating Ratio					

    					

    After tax return on shareholders’ fund (%) (11.99)  (11.70)    (9.29)                             2.04  1.56

    Pre-tax profit margin (%)              (11.58)      (10.48)    (5.63)                             2.44  1.82

    Financial Ratio

    Gearing (times)                        0.24         0.32       0.42                               0.23  0.22

    Interest Coverage ratio                (8.81)       (6.52)     (3.10)                             3.55  3.51

    					

    Liquidity ratio

    Current ratio                          2.35         1.80       1.32                               1.87  1.79

    Quick ratio                            1.27         0.99       0.61                               0.93  0.83

    Notes:

    (1) The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 246,626,468 to 493,252,936 units of ordinary shares
           by way of issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares arising from right issue exercise. The right issue had been
           completed when the Rights Shares were listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
           on 15 December 2020.

    (2) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit after tax
           attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial
           year.

    Changes in the composition of the Group
    There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

46
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                        Annual Report 2022

                         MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                               & ANALYSIS

                                                           (Cont’d)

Outlook and Prospects

The Group expects the environment for the Food & Beverage industry to remain challenging especially in the near future.
The high raw material cost, rising freight charges, and geo-political tensions are expected to impact on our business, while
rising inflationary pressures will continue to impact consumer spending.

We are nevertheless encouraged by our increasing sales revenue over the last 5 years and are confident in facing the
expected headwinds in FY2023 in both the domestic and export markets.

The rising inflationary pressures may likely result in consumers down trading and our Group will be poised to benefit from
this because of our value positioning.

We will endeavour to cushion the impact of increased cost of pressures to our business by practising tight management
of operations for efficiencies and prudent cost minimisation.

Going forward, the Group will remain focused on driving sustainable growth. We will continue to improve our production
efficiency by investing in automation where appropriate, lessen the impact on our bottom line through diligent cost
management measures and enhance margins with the right product mix and through price adjustments where possible.
We continue to focus on strengthening our market position with these strategies.

We will remain proactive in addressing the challenges ahead and are cautiously optimistic of a positive performance in the
new Financial Year (July 2022 – June 2023).

Event subsequent to the end of the financial year

The Company has completed a fund-raising exercise subsequent to the financial year for a renounceable rights issue for
ordinary shares at RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together
with 54,805,881 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed. With 164,417,645 Rights Shares
subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The Rights Shares were listed and quoted on
the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.

The proceeds raised from the Rights Issue will be utilised firstly in priority to defray the expenses related to the Rights
Issue, secondly towards business expansion, and lastly towards the working capital required for the day-to day operations
of the Group.

Acknowledgements

I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our two new Executive Directors, Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim and Mr
Kajendra Pathmanathan, who have been appointed to our Board on 11 October 2022. Their combined experience and
expertise will contribute positively to the strategies and direction of the Group.

I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their continued
support, trust and unwavering confidence over the past years.

To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the Company forward.

DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director

                                                                                                                              47
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                         Annual Report 2022

ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS

AS AT 30 september 2022

Class of Securities  : Ordinary Shares

Total Number of Holders : 1559

Voting Rights        : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

		                                                      No. of 		           No. of

Size of Shareholdings		 Shareholders                                     % Shares Held              %

1 – 99		                                                23   1.48           675                 0.00
100 – 1,000		                                                                                   0.01
1,001 – 10,000		                                        152  9.75           62,516              0.48
10,001 – 100,000		                                                                              3.60
100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		                              517  33.16          3,189,531         69.41
32,883,529 and above (**)		                                                                   26.50
                                                        668  42.84          23,675,563
                                                                                             100.00
                                                        197  12.64 456,431,896

                                                        2    0.13 174,310,400

TOTAL		 1,559                                                100.00 657,670,581

				
Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares

               ** 5% and above of Issued Shares

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on the Register
of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 30 September 2022 are as follows:

		                                                      Direct Interest     Deemed Interest
			
Substantial Shareholders		                              No. of		            No. of

                                            Shares Held                  %  Shares Held      %

Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		                  174,310,400      26.50                        –       –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		                      83,399,603      12.68          174,310,400 (1)  26.50
Chee Cheng Chun 		                                        –                 174,310,400 (1)  26.50
                                                                  –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn.
       Bhd.

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company as
at 30 September 2022 are as follows:

		                                                      Direct Interest     Deemed Interest
			
Directors		                                             No. of		            No. of

                                            Shares Held                  %  Shares Held      %

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		   9,415,600        1.43                        –       –
Darmendran Kunaretnam		                     83,399,603       12.68          174,310,400 (1)  26.50
Chee Cheng Chun		                                                           174,310,400 (1)  26.50
Tai Keat Chai		                                         –         –
Adnan bin Ahmad		                                       –         –                       –       –
                                                        –         –                       –       –

Notes:

            (1)  Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman Taipan Sdn.
                 Bhd.
48
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                        Annual Report 2022

                     THIRTY (30) LARGEST
                            SHAREHOLDERS

                                     AS AT 30 september 2022

THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS                             No. of Shares      (%)
                                                                            125,084,800    19.02
 No. Name of Shareholders                                                     49,225,600
 1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                                                 7.48
 2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         32,033,866
                                                                              31,097,200    4.87
         (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)             30,410,666    4.73
 3. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.                                                                     4.62
 4. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.                                                        29,560,672
 5. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                         25,984,800    4.49
                                                                              25,035,233    3.95
         (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)               24,636,766    3.81
 6. Darmendran Kunaretnam                                                                   3.75
 7. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.                                                  23,707,600
 8. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd.                                                                  3.60
 9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                21,306,666
                                                                              21,011,400    3.24
         (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)                       12,402,600    3.19
 10. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                             1.89
                                                                              10,527,066
         (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)                                      1.60
 11. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan                                                   9,415,600
 12. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd.                                                              1.43
 13. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                          8,650,666
                                                                                            1.32
         (Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)                         8,533,333
 14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                  1.30
                                                                                8,068,266
         (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran K Ragavan (021))                        1.23
 15. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                           7,216,000
                                                                                            1.10
         (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)            6,826,666
 16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                           1.04
                                                                                6,666,666
         (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)                           6,011,066   1.01
 17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                     5,052,528   0.91
                                                                                5,040,000   0.77
         (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))                    0.77
 18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      4,846,600
                                                                                            0.74
         (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                 4,602,000
 19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                    0.70
                                                                                4,266,666
         (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)                                   0.65
 20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                3,205,333
                                                                                3,066,666   0.49
         (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))                   0.47
 21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd.                                         2,666,666
 22. Haridas A/L Suppiah                                                                    0.41
 23. Lee Sew Keng                                                           556,159,657
 24. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                    84.58

         (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)                                           49
 25. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

         (Pledged Securities Account for Samuel Lo Qi Feng (MY2538))
 26. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

         (Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)
 27. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.

         (Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
 28. Kamlesh Kumar
 29. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

         (Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))
 30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.

         (Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))
         TOTAL
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                         Annual Report 2022

    CORPORATE
    STRUCTURE

                         REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                 199301027926 (282664-K)

          100%          100%                100%        100%         100%

    Rex Canning    Fika Foods       Cinta Edar (M)  Rex Foods   Fika Foods
     Co Sdn Bhd  Corporation             Snd Bhd     Sdn Bhd    Marketing

                     Sdn Bhd                                      Sdn Bhd

                     30%
                             70%

                          P.T. REX
                         CANNING,
                        INDONESIA

          100%                100%          100%         100%           100%

    Rex Trading             Summit     Best Aqua    Cinta Edar      Gainasia
       Sdn Bhd           Teamtrade   Food Sdn Bhd    (Selatan)  International

                             (2011)                   Sdn Bhd         Limited
                           Sdn Bhd

50
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                          Annual Report 2022

                                                                                                   DIRECTORS’
                                                                                                        REPORT

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its subsidiaries are set
out in Note 11 to the financial statements.

There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year.

RESULTS                                                                                            Group    Company
                                                                                                      RM            RM
				
				                                                                                               2,027,064 (6,263,332)

Profit/(loss) for the financial year, net of tax attributable to			
 Owners of the Company				

DIVIDENDS

On 8 October 2021, the Directors declared an interim single tier dividend of RM0.002 per ordinary share for the financial
year ended 30 June 2021 amounting to RM986,505, which was subsequently paid by the Company on 9 November 2021.

The Directors do not recommend any dividend in respect of the current financial year.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in
the financial statements.

ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
The Company has not issued any shares or debentures during the financial year.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The Directors in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are:

Adnan Bin Ahmad                                                                 (Appointed on 11 October 2022)
Chee Cheng Chun *                                                               (Appointed on 11 October 2022)
Darmendran Kunaretnam *
Tai Keat Chai *
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
Kajendra Pathmanathan

* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries                                                                                   51
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                 Annual Report 2022

    DIRECTORS’
    REPORT

    (Cont’d)

    DIRECTOR OF THE SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

    Pursuant to Section 253(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Director who served in the subsidiaries (excluding Directors
    who are also Directors of the Company) in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report is as
    follows:

    Vong Nee Toh

    DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

    According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016,
    the interest of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares or debentures of the Company and its related
    corporations during the financial year were as follows:

    		                                                       Number of Ordinary Shares
    			
    			                                         At 			                                  At
    			
    Name of Directors                           01.07.2021   Bought     Sold 30.06.2022

                                                Unit         Unit       Unit            Unit

    Ordinary shares in the Company

    Direct interests:

    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain		  7,061,600    –          –               7,061,600

    Darmendran Kunaretnam		 62,549,704                       –          – 62,549,704

    Indirect interests:                         121,232,800  9,500,000  – 130,732,800
    Darmendran Kunaretnam *
    - Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		

    Chee Cheng Chun *                                        9,500,000  – 130,732,800
    - Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 121,232,800

    * Deemed interest via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in
           Malaysia.

    The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
    related corporations during the financial year.

52
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                             Annual Report 2022

                                                  DIRECTORS’
                                                       REPORT

                                                         (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company and the
estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash from the Company and
its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows:

					                                           Company Subsidiaries
					
                                                RM        RM

Fees and allowances				                         71,710    110,300
Salaries and other emoluments				                      –  903,660
Contributions to defined contribution plan				         –
Social security contributions				                      –   54,264
                                                               676

					                                           71,710    1,068,900

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive any
benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the financial statements or the
fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation
with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest, except as disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling Directors of the
Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body
corporate.

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

(a) Before the statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of the Group and of the
       Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:

       (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
               provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no known bad debts and that adequate
               provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

       (ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
               their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to
               an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:

       (i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
               inadequate to any substantial extent;

       (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
               Company misleading;

       (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
               Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or

       (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
               financial statements misleading.

 

                                                                                                                               53
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         Annual Report 2022

    DIRECTORS’
    REPORT

    (Cont’d)

    OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)

    (c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:

           (i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
                   which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

           (ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.

    (d) In the opinion of the Directors:

           (i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period
                   of twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the
                   Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;

           (ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
                   substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and

           (iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the end of the
                   financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of the operations of
                   the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.

    (e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries as remuneration for their
           services for the financial year are as set out in Note 6 to the financial statements.

    (f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the Company or
           any of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.

    (g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company and its
           subsidiaries.

    EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF FINANCIAL YEAR

    Details of event subsequent to the end of financial year are disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.

    AUDITORS

    The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

    Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 11 October 2022.

    TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM  TAI KEAT CHAI
     BIN MOHD ZAIN

54
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD         Annual Report 2022

                                                       STATEMENT BY
                                                            DIRECTORS

                            PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, the undersigned, being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the
accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 125 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia, so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2022
and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.

Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 11 October 2022.

TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM  TAI KEAT CHAI
 BIN MOHD ZAIN

                                                               STATUTORY
                                                            DECLARATION

                                                         PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, CHIA HUP TONG, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 60 to 125 are to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of
the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly
declared by the abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory
on 11 October 2022

                            CHIA HUP TONG

Before me,

TAN KIM CHOOI
W661

                                                                                                                             55
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  Annual Report 2022

   INDEPENDENT
   AUDITORS’ REPORT

      TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
      REGISTRATION NO.: 199301027926 (282664-K)
      (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

      Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

       Opinion

       We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
       at 30 June 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes
       in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the
       financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 60 to 125.

       In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
       of the Company as at 30 June 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
       ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
       requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

       Basis for Opinion

       We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
       Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
       of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
       appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

       Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

       We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
       and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
       Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
       (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and IESBA Code.

       Key Audit Matters

       Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our audit of the
       financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
       context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion
       thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

       Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment

       Goodwill

       As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 13 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill amounted
       to approximately RM7.0 million.

       The Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of impairment exists, perform impairment
       assessments of goodwill that has an indefinite useful life. For the purpose of performing impairment assessments,
       goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating units (“CGUs”). The recoverable amount of the underlying CGUs
       is supported by value-in-use (“VIU”) or fair value less costs of disposal calculations which are based on future discounted
       cash flows. The management concluded that no impairment on goodwill is required for the financial year ended 30 June
       2022.

       Investments in subsidiaries

       As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 11 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Company’s investments
       in subsidiaries amounted to RM84.9 million. During the financial year, the Company has recognised an impairment loss of
       RM4.4 million for its investments in subsidiaries.

       A lower of net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amount of investments
       in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount of the investments in
       subsidiaries based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows projections
       derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.

56
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                Annual Report 2022

                            INDEPENDENT
                     AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                         (Cont’d)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment (Cont’d)

Impairment review of property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)

As at 30 June 2022, as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, the carrying amounts of the Group’s PPE amounted to
RM80.4 million, representing approximately 40% of the Group’s total assets.

Certain subsidiaries were loss making and in accumulated losses position during the financial year. These resulted in
indications that the carrying amounts of PPE may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amount
of the PPE based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows projections
derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year period.

We have identified the impairment review of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE as key audit matters as
impairment test involves significant judgement in estimating the underlying assumptions to be applied in the discounted
cash flows projections of the VIU calculations. The recoverable amounts of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE
are highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect of future revenue growth rate, gross margin and the pre-tax
discount rate used in the cash flows projections. A small change in the assumption can have a significant impact on the
estimation of the recoverable amount.

Our audit performed and responses thereon

In addressing the matters above, we have performed the following audit procedures to evaluate management’s basis and
assumptions used in the VIU and the fair value less costs of disposal for respective subsidiaries and CGUs:-

• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts based on VIU were prepared by management based on the approved
       budgets by the Directors;

• Evaluated management’s budgeting process by comparing actual results to historical cash flows projections;

• Reviewed management’s impairment assessment including their considerations of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic
       has on the operations and compared, gross margin and discount rate against our knowledge of the subsidiaries’
       and CGUs’ historical performance, business and cost management strategies based on facts and circumstances
       currently available;

• Performed sensitivity analysis by changing certain key assumptions used in the VIU and assessed the impact on the
       recoverable amounts of the cost of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and PPE;

• Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE; and

• Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments to
       estimate the fair value of the subsidiaries.

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the
other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

                                                                                                                                      57
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD  Annual Report 2022

    INDEPENDENT
    AUDITORS’ REPORT

    (Cont’d)

    Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

    Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

    The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the
    Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
    Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for
    such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group
    and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

    In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
    Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
    concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
    Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

    Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

    Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
    as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
    our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
    with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
    misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
    the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
    financial statements.

    As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
    we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

    (a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
           whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
           evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
           misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
           intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

    (b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
           in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the
           Company’s internal control.

    (c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
           related disclosures made by the Directors.

    (d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
           the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
           significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
           material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the
           financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
           Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future
           events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

    (e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
           including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
           underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

    (f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
           within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
           supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

58
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                             Annual Report 2022

                                         INDEPENDENT
                                  AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                      (Cont’d)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
such communication.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.

Other Matter

This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this
report.

MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT     STEPHEN WAN YENG LEONG
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA)     02963/07/2023J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096)  Chartered Accountant

Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 11 October 2022

                                                                                                                            59
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                    Annual Report 2022

STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022

                                                                                       Group                 Company

		                                                                     2022                   2021     2022             2021
                                                                 Note
                                                                       RM                     RM       RM               RM

Revenue                            4                                    161,111,027     160,539,264                –  11,000,000
                                                                          (5,885,489)     (5,662,607)              –              –
Changes in manufactured inventories		                                                                              –              –
                                                                       (101,087,836)   (100,791,279)      (71,710)
Raw materials and consumables used		                                    (21,093,810)    (20,837,381)               –    (184,510)
                                                                          (4,630,378)     (3,799,133)    (252,177)                –
Staff costs		                                                           (26,685,815)    (25,481,686)   (5,939,445)
                                                                            (830,341)       (320,364)              –    (235,702)
Depreciation		                                                             3,207,948       1,795,780                              –

Other operating expenses		                                                                                                 42,590

Other expenses		

Other income		

Profit/(loss) from operations		                                         4,105,306       5,442,594      (6,263,332)    10,622,378
                                                                       (1,171,083)     (1,530,554)                 –              –
Finance costs                      5

Profit/(loss) before tax           6                                   2,934,223       3,912,040       (6,263,332)    10,622,378
Income tax expense                                                                                                 –              –
                                   7                                   (907,159) (1,309,463)

Profit/(loss) for the year, representing                               2,027,064       2,602,577       (6,263,332) 10,622,378
 total comprehensive income for
 the financial year		

Other comprehensive income,                                            1,269,392       (1,556,615)     –                –
 net of tax
Items that may be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation		

Items that will not be reclassified                                    –               306,288         –                –
 subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		

Total other comprehensive income                                       1,269,392       (1,250,327)     –                –
 for the financial year		

Total comprehensive income for the                                     3,296,456       1,352,250       (6,263,332) 10,622,378
 financial year		

Profit/(loss) attributable to:						

Owners of the Company		                                                2,027,064       2,602,577       (6,263,332) 10,622,378

Total comprehensive income                                             3,296,456       1,352,250       (6,263,332) 10,622,378
 attributable to:
Owners of the Company		

Basic earnings per ordinary share  8                                   0.38                   0.64
 attributable to Owners of
 the Company (sen):

       The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.

60
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                    Annual Report 2022

                                                                                            STATEMENTS OF
                                                                                      FINANCIAL POSITION

                                                                                                               AS AT 30 JUNE 2022

                                                                                      Group                           Company

		                                                                     2022                  2021      2022                    2021
                                                                 Note
                                                                       RM                    RM        RM                      RM

ASSETS

Non-Current Assets

Property, plant and equipment  9                                       80,377,179     78,894,959                   –              –
                                                                        5,604,842      6,143,278                   –              –
Right-of-use assets            10                                                  –              –    84,880,641     89,255,250
                                                                                   –              –                –              –
Investments in subsidiaries    11                                       7,037,480      7,037,480                   –              –

Other investment               12                                      93,019,501     92,075,717       84,880,641     89,255,250

Goodwill on consolidation      13

		

Current Assets

Inventories                    14                                      58,316,937      52,116,219                  –                –
                                                                       34,408,795      33,363,772                  –                –
Trade receivables              15                                                                         235,497            20,648
                                                                        6,750,592        3,144,775     12,166,214      15,116,918
Other receivables              16                                                  –                –       31,320           31,320
                                                                                                            93,310         142,200
Amounts due from subsidiaries  17                                         161,328          190,397
                                                                        8,790,165      14,628,260      12,526,341      15,311,086
Tax recoverable		
                                                                                      103,443,423      97,406,982     104,566,336
Cash and cash equivalents      18
                                                                                      195,519,140
		 108,427,817

TOTAL ASSETS		 201,447,318

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

Share capital                  19                                      97,903,444     97,903,444       97,903,444     97,903,444
                                                                       (3,667,102)    (4,936,494)                  –              –
Translation reserve            20
                                                                       35,478,033     34,437,474       (3,751,757)     3,498,080
Retained earnings/

 (accumulated losses)		

Total equity attributable to Owners                                                                    94,151,687 101,401,524
 of the Company		 129,714,375 127,404,424

Non-Current Liabilities

Borrowings                     21                                       9,272,106     10,515,773       –                       –
                                                                        1,491,888      1,507,883
Deferred tax liabilities       22                                                        773,965       –                       –
                                                                          390,087
Lease liabilities              23                                                     12,797,621       –                       –
                                                                       11,154,081
		                                                                                                     –                       –

Current Liabilities

Borrowings                     21                                      18,532,065      18,368,534                  –                –
                                                                       19,823,659      20,003,757                  –                –
Trade payables                 24                                      21,274,054      15,858,606         255,372          201,494
                                                                                                                   –                –
Other payables                 25                                         596,276          582,488      2,999,923        2,963,318
                                                                                   –                –              –                –
Rebate liability               26                                                                                  –                –
                                                                          273,060          332,817
Amounts due to subsidiaries    17                                           79,748         170,893      3,255,295        3,164,812

Lease liabilities              23                                                      55,317,095       3,255,295        3,164,812

Tax payable		                                                                          68,114,716      97,406,982     104,566,336

		 60,578,862                                                                         195,519,140

Total Liabilities		 71,732,943

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 201,447,318

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.

                                                                                                                                       61
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                  Annual Report 2022

    STATEMENTS OF
    CHANGES IN EQUITY

    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022

                                                                           Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                                           Non-Distributable             Distributable

    		                                                                     Share Translation             Retained        Total
    		                                                                                                                  Equity
                                                                           Capital        Reserve        Earnings
                                                                     Note                                                  RM
                                                                           RM                 RM         RM

    Group                                                                  73,742,421 (3,379,879) 31,528,609 101,891,151
    At 1 July 2020		

    Foreign currency translation difference

     for foreign operations		                                              – (1,556,615)                         –      (1,556,615)
                                                                                                         306,288           306,288
    Defined benefit plan actuarial gain      25(i)                         –                  –

    Total other comprehensive income for                                   – (1,556,615)                   306,288      (1,250,327)
     the financial year		                                                                                2,602,577       2,602,577
    Profit for the financial year		                                        –                  –

    Total comprehensive income for the                                     – (1,556,615)                 2,908,865      1,352,250
     financial year		

    Transaction with Owners of the Company

    Issuance of ordinary shares              19                            24,161,023                 –              –   24,161,023
                                                                           97,903,444     (4,936,494)    34,437,474     127,404,424
    At 30 June 2021		

    At 1 July 2021		                                                       97,903,444     (4,936,494) 34,437,474 127,404,424

    Foreign currency translation                                                       –  1,269,392                 –   1,269,392
     difference for foreign                                                            –             –   2,027,064      2,027,064
     operations, representing                                                          –
     total other comprehensive                                                         –
     income for the financial year		                                       97,903,444
    Profit for the financial year		

    Total comprehensive income for the                                                    1,269,392      2,027,064      3,296,456
     financial year		

    Transaction with Owners of the Company

    Dividend                                 27                                                       –  (986,505)      (986,505)
                                                                                          (3,667,102)
    At 30 June 2022		                                                                                    35,478,033 129,714,375

62
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                               Annual Report 2022

                                                                       STATEMENTS OF
                                                                  CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                                                       (Cont’d)

					 (Accumulated

					 Losses)/

					 Distributable

				                                               Share          Retained      Total
                                                                               Equity
				                                               Capital        Earnings
                                                                                  RM
			                                     Note       RM             RM

Company                                            73,742,421     (7,124,298) 66,618,123
At 1 July 2020			

Profit for the financial year, representing total  –              10,622,378 10,622,378
 comprehensive income for the financial year			

Transaction with Owners of the Company  19         24,161,023     – 24,161,023
Issuance of ordinary shares 		

At 30 June 2021			 97,903,444                                     3,498,080 101,401,524

At 1 July 2021			                                  97,903,444     3,498,080 101,401,524
                                                               –
Loss for the financial year, representing total                –  (6,263,332) (6,263,332)
 comprehensive income for the financial year			
                                                   97,903,444
Transaction with Owners of the Company

Dividend		                              27                          (986,505)    (986,505)
                                                                  (3,751,757)  94,151,687
At 30 June 2022			

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.

                                                                                                                                      63
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                 Annual Report 2022

    STATEMENTS OF
    CASH FLOWS

    FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2022

                                                                                          Group                       Company

    		                                                                     2022                  2021   2022                   2021
                                                                     Note
                                                                           RM                    RM     RM                     RM

    Cash Flows from Operating Activities

    Profit/(loss) before tax		                                             2,934,223      3,912,040     (6,263,332) 10,622,378

    Adjustments for:

     Allowance for inventories obsolescence		                                   37,102               –             –          –

     Depreciation of property,                                              4,154,724     3,371,632                –          –
                                                                              475,654       427,496                –          –
      plant and equipment		                                                            –    (42,590)               –  (42,590)

     Depreciation of right-of-use assets		                                   (389,920)     (147,981)               –          –
                                                                                (2,230)              –             –          –
     Gain on disposal of other investment		                                     (5,526)              –             –          –

     Gain on disposal of property, plant                                               –             –  1,564,836             –
                                                                                       –             –  4,374,609             –
      and equipment		                                                         156,083                –                        –
                                                                                31,466               –             –          –
     Gain on lease modification		                                               75,361               –             –          –
                                                                            1,171,083     1,530,554                –          –
     Gain on lease termination		                                              (59,385)     (111,209)               –          –
                                                                                       –    658,300                –          –
     Impairment loss on:                                                      306,210                –             –          –
                                                                                                                   –
     - amounts due from subsidiaries		                                          (3,626)     (15,517)                          –
                                                                           (1,143,733)               –             –          –
     - investments in subsidiaries		                                                                               –
                                                                             (563,116)     (658,300)                          –
     - property, plant and equipment		                                                                             –
                                                                              433,548       294,589                           –
     - trade receivables		                                                                                         –

     - other receivables		

     Interest expense		

     Interest income		

     Inventories written off		

     Provision for staff termination benefits  25

     Reversal of impairment loss on:

     - trade receivables		

     - other receivables		

     Reversal of allowance for inventories

      obsolescence		

     Unrealised loss on foreign exchange,

      net		

    Operating profit/(loss) before changes                                 7,607,918      9,219,014     (323,887) 10,579,788
     in working capital, balance
     carried down		

64
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                          Annual Report 2022

                                                                                                      STATEMENTS OF
                                                                                                           CASH FLOWS

                                                                                                                     (Cont’d)

                                                                                      Group                         Company

		                                                                     2022                  2021     2022                   2021
                                                                 Note
                                                                       RM                    RM       RM                     RM
Operating profit/(loss) before changes
 in working capital, balance                                           7,607,918      9,219,014       (323,887) 10,579,788
 brought down		
                                                                       (4,374,545)    (5,671,749)              –                 –
Changes in working capital:                                            (3,446,031)    (4,600,840)     (214,849)     (11,645,214)
 Inventories		                                                          4,226,312      2,059,573
 Trade and other receivables		                                                                          53,878           655,184
 Trade and other payables		                                                 13,788       317,479               –                 –
 Rebate liability		
                                                                        4,027,442      1,323,477      (484,858)     (410,242)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations		                             (1,171,083)    (1,530,554)              –             –
 Interest paid		                                                                                               –             –
 Interest received		                                                        59,385       111,209               –             –
 Tax paid		                                                            (1,030,538)    (1,296,064)              –             –
 Tax refund		
                                                                            40,135          5,338     (484,858)     (410,242)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities		
                                                                        1,925,341     (1,386,594)

Cash Flows from Investing Activities                                   (5,946,296)    (2,965,140)                –               –
Acquisition of property, plant and                                        (85,043)                –              –               –
 equipment		                                                              930,001                                –               –
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:                                                –     527,650                 –       796,590
- Cash payments		                                                                  –     796,590      1,385,868     (24,413,982)
Proceeds from disposal of property,                                                                   1,385,868     (23,617,392)
 plant and equipment		                                                 (5,101,338)                –
Proceeds from disposal of other                                                       (1,640,900)
 investment		
Repayment from/(advances to) subsidiaries		

Net cash (used in)/from investing activities		

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Advances from subsidiaries		                                                       –               –    36,605                  –
                                                                         (986,505)                 –  (986,505)                 –
Dividend paid		                                                        (1,779,672)    (10,321,131)                              –
                                                                                                               –
Repayment of borrowings, net          (ii)                                                                                      –
                                                                                                               –
Payment for the principal portion of                                                                                24,161,023
                                                                                                               –
 lease liabilities                    (ii),(iii)                       (336,736)      (319,380)                     24,161,023
                                                                                                      (949,900)
Proceeds from issuance of

 ordinary shares		                                                     – 24,161,023

Net cash (used in)/from financing activities		                         (3,102,913) 13,520,512

                                                                                                                                    65
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                Annual Report 2022

    STATEMENTS OF
    CASH FLOWS

    (Cont’d)

                                                                                          Group                  Company

    		                                                                      2022                 2021  2022               2021
                                                                     Note
                                                                            RM                   RM    RM                 RM

    Net (decrease)/increase in                                              (6,278,910)   10,493,018   (48,890)  133,389
     cash and cash equivalents		                                            13,756,277     3,373,430   142,200      8,811
    Cash and cash equivalents at
     beginning of the financial year		                                      29,902        (110,171)    –                  –
    Effect of exchange rate
     changes on cash and cash
     equivalents		

    Cash and cash equivalents

     at end of the financial year             (i)                           7,507,269 13,756,277       93,310    142,200

    (i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-

                                                                                          Group                  Company

    		                                                                      2022                 2021  2022               2021
                                                                      Note
                                                                            RM                   RM    RM                 RM

    Cash and bank balances		                                                7,890,165     12,500,887   93,310    142,200
                                                                              900,000        350,000          –          –
    Fixed deposits with licensed banks        18(i)                                    –                      –          –
                                                                                           1,777,373
    Short-term fund                           18(ii)

    			                                                                      8,790,165    14,628,260   93,310    142,200
                                                                            (1,282,896)     (871,983)         –          –
    Less: Bank overdrafts                     21

    			                                                                     7,507,269 13,756,277       93,310    142,200

66
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                 Annual Report 2022

                                                                             STATEMENTS OF
                                                                                  CASH FLOWS

                                                                                            (Cont’d)

(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:

			                                        Bankers’    Term                  Revolving                              Lease
			                                    Acceptance     Loans
			                                                                          Credit 	Liabilities
                                                  RM     RM
                                                                             RM                                     RM

Group                                  13,309,730     11,702,594             3,000,000                       1,106,782
2022                                               –              –                     –                      280,779
At 1 July 2021		                                   –              –                     –                      (97,905)
Additions		                                        –              –                     –                     (291,688)
Reversal due to lease modifications		                             –                     –                         1,915
Lease termination		                       288,623
Exchange differences		

Drawdown		                                216,695                 –                   –                               –
Repayment		                            (1,375,441)    (1,617,704)            (120,132)                       (365,915)
Interest expense		                                                            120,132
                                          569,441        427,337                                               29,179

Net changes in financing cash flows		  (589,305) (1,190,367)                                              –  (336,736)

At 30 June 2022		 13,009,048 10,512,227                                      3,000,000                       663,147

2021                                   22,053,774     12,674,353              4,000,000                      1,242,219
At 1 July 2020		                                   –              –                      –                     187,871
Additions		                                                       –                      –                       (3,928)
Exchange differences		                   (394,672)
                                                      (1,513,912)            (1,124,020)                      (350,267)
Repayment		                            (9,058,739)       542,153                124,020                         30,887
Interest expense		                        709,367
                                                        (971,759)            (1,000,000)                      (319,380)
Net changes in financing cash flows		  (8,349,372)
                                                      11,702,594              3,000,000                      1,106,782
At 30 June 2021		                      13,309,730

(iii) Cash outflows for right-of-use assets are as follows:                                                  Group

				                                                                         2022                                   2021
				
                                                                             RM                                     RM
       Included in net cash from/(used in) operating activities:
       Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities				                     (29,179)                        (30,887)
       Payment relating to short term lease and lease of low value assets		  (777,707)                       (717,796)

       Included in net cash (used in)/from financing activities:               (336,736)                       (319,380)
       Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities			             (1,143,622)                     (1,068,063)

       Total cash outflows for lease liabilities				

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.

                                                                                                                                      67
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTs

    30 JUNE 2022

    1. CORPORATE INFORMATION

           The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main Market
           of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

           The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
           Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.

           The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its subsidiaries are
           set out in Note 11. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the
           Company during the financial year.

           The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution dated 11
           October 2022.

    2. BASIS OF PREPARATION

    (a) Statement of compliance

    The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian
    Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of
    the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

    The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the preparation of
    the financial statements.

    (i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year

    The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that are
    mandatory as follows:-

    Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 7,  Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
     MFRS 4 and MFRS 16            Covid-19 – Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021

    Amendments to MFRS 16

    The adoption of the above accounting pronouncements did not have any significant effect on the financial
    statements of the Group and of the Company.

    (ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted

    The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new accounting pronouncements that have
    been issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not yet effective for the
    Group and the Company:-

    Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022

    Amendments to MFRS 3           Reference to the Conceptual Framework

    Amendments to MFRS 116         Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before Intended Use

    Amendments to MFRS 137         Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract

    Annual Improvements to MFRSs 2018 – 2020

68
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                 Annual Report 2022

                                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                    (Cont’d)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

(a) Statement of compliance (Cont’d)

(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted
       (Cont’d)

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023

MFRS 17                                   Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17                     Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17                     Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative
                                           Information
Amendments to MFRS 101                    Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 and                Disclosure of Accounting Policies
 MFRS Practice Statement 2
Amendments to MFRS 108                    Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112                    Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
                                           Single Transaction

Effective date to be announced

Amendments to MFRS 10                     Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its and
   MFRS 128                                Associate or Joint Venture

The Group and the Company will adopt the above accounting pronouncements when they become
effective in the respective financial periods. These accounting pronouncements are not expected to have
any effect to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company upon their initial applications.

(b) Basis of measurement

The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost convention
except otherwise disclosed in the accounting policy notes.

(c) Functional and presentation currency

The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements
are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional currency, unless otherwise
stated.

(d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements

The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s and
the Company’s results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures. Certain of these
accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and subjective judgements and
the use of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to
change. Directors exercise their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting
policies.

Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and underlying
assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results
may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.

                                                                                                                69
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

           (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (Cont’d)

                   The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at the end of the
                   reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
                   and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.

                   (i) Impairment of non-financial assets

                          The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting date to
                          assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the Group makes an
                          estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair
                          value less cost to sell and its value-in-use (“VIU”). When the recoverable amount of an asset is determined
                          based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset is allocated, the
                          management is required to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and also
                          to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.

                   (ii) Impairment of goodwill

                          Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This requires
                          management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill
                          is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash
                          flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates estimated and
                          discount rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference will impact the
                          carrying value of goodwill.

                   (iii) Impairment of financial assets and receivables

                          The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated with
                          their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied as disclosed in
                          Note 3(o)(i) depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

                          For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9,
                          which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.

                          For other receivables and amounts due from related parties, the Group and the Company apply the
                          approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to measure the allowance for
                          impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the probability of default occurring within
                          the next 12 months considering the loss given default of that financial asset.

                   (iv)	Provision for slow-moving inventories

                          Reviews are made periodically by management on slow-moving inventories. These reviews required
                          judgement and estimates. Possible changes in these estimates could result in revisions to the valuation
                          of inventories.

                   (v) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries

                          Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment annually in accordance with its accounting
                          policy or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be
                          recoverable.

                          Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
                          by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions and
                          judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in assumptions
                          could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries.

70
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

       (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (Cont’d)

               (vi) Defined benefit plan

                      The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the present
                      value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves making
                      assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability rate and resignation
                      rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rate,
                      management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market yield on government bond which
                      sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.

                      The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 25(i).

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
       statements.

       (a) Basis of consolidation

               Consolidation

               The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
               as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation of the consolidated
               financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company. Consistent accounting policies
               are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and
               only if the Company has all the following:

               (i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant power
                      activities of the investee); 

               (ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
               (iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.

               When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company considers the
               following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power
               over the investee:

               (i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the
                      other vote holders;

               (ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
               (iii)		Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
               (iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current

                      ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns
                      at previous shareholders’ meetings.

               Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the
               Company loses control of the subsidiary.

               Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.

               Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over
               the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interest and the
               non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. The
               resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.

               When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are compared to
               the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying amount of allocated
               goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised as gain or loss on disposal.

                                                                                                                                       71
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

           (a) Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)

                   Business combination

                   Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
                   measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the
                   amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis
                   whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate
                   share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction cost incurred are expensed and included in the profit
                   or loss.

                   Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition
                   date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset
                   or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit or loss or a change to other
                   comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured.
                   Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances where the contingent consideration does
                   not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate MFRS.

                   When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate
                   classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent
                   conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the
                   acquiree. 

                   If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously
                   held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.

                   Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and
                   the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
                   assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference
                   is recognised in the profit or loss.

                   After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose
                   of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to
                   each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of
                   whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.

                   Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed
                   of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation
                   when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based
                   on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.

                   Subsidiaries

                   In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less
                   impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal proceeds and their
                   carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.

                   Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                   Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
                   transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
                   statements.

72
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (b) Foreign currency

               (i) Foreign currency transactions and balances

                      In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the
                      entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using the exchange rates
                      prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies at the
                      reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the exchange rates on the reporting date.
                      Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the reporting date except
                      for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate
                      at the date that the fair value was determined.

                      Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of monetary
                      items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences arising on monetary
                      items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.

               (ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia

                      The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different from the
                      presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated into RM as follows:-

                      • Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate prevailing
                              at the reporting date;

                      • Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year, which
                              approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

                      • All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.

                      Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when control, joint
                      control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.

                      On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of the subsidiary
                      is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the cumulative translation
                      differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other partial disposals.

       (c) Revenue and other income recognition

               Revenue from contracts with customers

               Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e. when
               the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the
               customer.

               A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct goods or
               services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is
               explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business practices.

               Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange
               for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf
               of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due
               to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar items, the Group estimates the
               amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the expected value or the most likely outcome.
               If the contract with customer contains more than one performance obligation, the amount of consideration
               is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or
               services promised in the contract.

                                                                                                                                      73
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

           (c) Revenue and other income recognition (Cont’d)

                   Revenue from contracts with customers (Cont’d)

                   The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
                   cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration
                   is subsequently resolved.

                   The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control
                   over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:

                   - The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance
                          as the Group performs;

                   - The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
                          or enhanced; or

                   - The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an
                          enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.

                   Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which
                   the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.

                   Rebate liability

                   A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable) from the
                   customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer.
                   The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs its obligation under the contracts.

                   The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and discounts
                   are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration for the expected
                   future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method. The Group then applies the
                   requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and recognises a refund liability for the
                   expected future rebates.

                   Other income

                   Other revenue earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:

                   Dividend income

                   Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.

                   Interest income

                   Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

                   Rental income

                   Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.

                   Wages subsidy

                   Government grant/assistance received from Government on wages subsidy is recognised on monthly basis
                   over the qualified period under the criteria set by the Government.

74
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (d) Employee benefits

               Short term employee benefits

               Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the financial year in
               which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term accumulating compensated
               absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are rendered by employees that increase their
               entitlement to future compensated absences, and short term non-accumulating compensated absences such
               as sick leaves are recognised when absences occur.

               The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount expected to be
               paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.

               Defined contribution plans

               As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the state pension scheme, the Employees
               Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the relevant state pension
               scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once the contributions have been paid,
               the Group has no further payment obligations.

               Defined benefit plan

               The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for each plan
               by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current
               and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any unrecognised past service costs
               and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the end of the reporting
               period on government bond (sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in
               the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a
               qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.

               When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any
               unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future
               refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to calculate the present value of
               economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in the
               Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement
               of the plan liabilities.

               When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by
               employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits
               become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in
               profit or loss.

               The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans in other comprehensive
               income and all expenses related to defined benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.

               The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan when the
               curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting change in the fair
               value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation and any related actuarial gains
               and losses and past service cost that had not previously been recognised.

                                                                                                                                       75
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

           (e) Borrowing costs

                   Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are recognised in the
                   profit or loss using the effective interest method.

                   Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily
                   take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost
                   of those assets.

                   The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
                   for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare
                   the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases
                   when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are
                   interrupted or completed.

                   Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on
                   qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

           (f) Income taxes

                   Current tax

                   Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected amount
                   payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and foreign operations, using tax
                   rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any adjustments recognised for prior years’
                   tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the related tax effect is recognised either in other
                   comprehensive income or directly in equity.

                   Deferred tax

                   Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the carrying amount
                   of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax is not recognised
                   for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and
                   liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor
                   taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which
                   the assets are realised or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or
                   substantively enacted by the reporting date.

                   Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary differences
                   relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is probable that future
                   taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.

                   Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
                   probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each
                   reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be
                   available for the assets to be utilised.

                   Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
                   Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other comprehensive
                   income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is adjusted against goodwill
                   on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s
                   identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the acquisition cost.

76
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                         Annual Report 2022

                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                            (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(g)	Leases

As a lessee

The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or site on
which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement
date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The
estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:

Short term leasehold land *                  Over the lease term of 60 years
Long term leasehold land ^                   Over the lease term of 60 years
Hostel rental
Office rental                                                                3 years
Factory rental                                                               6 years
Motor vehicle                                                             6.5 years
                                                                         4 - 5 years

* Short term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years
^ Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years

The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are presented as a separate line in the statements of financial
position.

In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain
remeasurements of the lease liability. The Group applies MFRS 136 to determine whether a right-of-use asset
is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment loss as described in Note 3(o)(ii).

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the commencement
date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease payments included in the measurement
of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease payments, amount expected to be payable under
a residual value guarantee, and exercise price under an extension option that the Group is reasonably certain to
exercise.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group changes its assessment
of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.

Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight-
line basis as an expense in the profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or
less.

As a lessor

Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of
an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over
the lease terms and is included in other revenue in the statement of profit or loss due to its operating nature.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of
the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are
recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.

                                                                                                                    77
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                            Annual Report 2022

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(h) Earnings per share

Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year,
adjusted for own shares held.

(i)	Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses.

(i) Recognition and measurement

Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and any other
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of replacing
component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of
the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and
direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting
policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the profit or loss as
incurred.

When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits
are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property, plant and
equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of
the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.

(ii) Subsequent costs

The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to
the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant
and equipment are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.

(iii) Depreciation

Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that
asset, then that component is depreciated separately.

Depreciation is recognised in the profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated useful
lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following annual rates:-

Buildings                                                                             2%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                                         5% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment                                       5% - 20%
Motor vehicles
                                                                                     20%

Freehold land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting period, and
adjusted as appropriate.

                             Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until they are
                             no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these property, plant and
                             equipment.

78
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (j) Capital work-in-progress

               Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes borrowing
               costs incurred during the period of construction.

               No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the cost will be
               transferred to property, plant and equipment.

       (k) Intangible assets

               Goodwill

               Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase consideration
               and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the
               subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.

               Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses,
               if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when indication of
               impairment exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.

               Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the computation
               of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
               income.

       (l) Inventories

               Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

               The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred
               in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition.

               Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of
               completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

               Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:

               - cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a weighted
                      average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).

               - cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of production
                      overheads.

       (m) Cash and cash equivalents

               Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposits with licensed banks with
               licensed bank and short-term fund that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject
               to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash
               equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.

                                                                                                                                         79
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Cont’d)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (n) Financial instruments

                      (i) Initial recognition and measurement

                             A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only
                             when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

                             A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or a financial
                             liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss,
                             transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance. A trade receivable without a
                             significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price. 

                             An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract is not
                             a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely related to the
                             economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is not measured at fair value
                             through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is
                             accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.

                      (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement

                             The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:

                             Financial assets

                             Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified subsequent
                             to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business model for managing
                             financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first
                             reporting period following the change of the business model.

                             Amortised cost

                             Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model whose
                             objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms give rise on
                             specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
                             outstanding. The financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent to
                             initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
                             method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains
                             and losses and impairment are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is
                             recognised in the profit or loss. Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the
                             gross carrying amount except for credit impaired financial assets [see Note 3(o)(i)] where the effective
                             interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.

                             Fair value through profit or loss

                             All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income
                             are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for
                             a derivative that is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group or
                             the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be
                             measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income as at fair value through
                             profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise
                             arise. Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured at their
                             fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in the profit or
                             loss.

                             All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are subject to impairment
                             assessment [see Note 3(o)(i)].
        

80
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (n) Financial instruments (Cont’d)

               (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (Cont’d)

                      The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows: (Cont’d)

                      Financial liabilities

                      Amortised cost

                      Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently measured
                      at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

                      Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Any gains or
                      losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.

               (iii) Offsetting

                      Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statements of
                      financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally enforceable right
                      to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and liability
                      simultaneously.

               (iv) Financial guarantee contracts

                      A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
                      reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in
                      accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

                      Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at higher
                      of:

                      • the amount of the loss allowance; and

                      • the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
                              in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

                      Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.

               (v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets

                      A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms
                      require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the
                      market place concerned.

                      A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable, using
                      trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:

                      (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date; and

                      (b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition
                              of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date. 

                                                                                                                                        81
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

           (n) Financial instruments (Cont’d)

                   (vi) Derecognition

                          A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the cash
                          flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or substantially all of the risks
                          and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred to another party. On derecognition of a
                          financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received
                          (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that
                          had been recognised in equity is recognised in the profit or loss.

                          A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified in the
                          contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference
                          between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the
                          consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the
                          profit or loss.

           (o) Impairment

                   (i) Financial assets

                          The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on financial
                          assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit losses are a
                          probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                          Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-

                          (i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the 12
                                  months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less
                                  than 12 months); or

                          (ii) Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over the
                                  expected life of a financial instrument.

                          The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit
                          risk.

                          Simplified approach – trade receivables

                          The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables as
                          permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from
                          initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated
                          using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss experience,
                          adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of
                          both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value
                          of money where applicable.

                          General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts

                          The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
                          instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at an
                          amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.

82
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (o) Impairment (Cont’d)

               (i) Financial assets (Cont’d)

                      General approach - other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts (Cont’d)

                      At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial instrument
                      has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased significantly since
                      initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether
                      the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating
                      ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and
                      available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and
                      analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
                      and including forward looking information, where available.

                      If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the financial
                      instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial
                      recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.

                      The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes
                      when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full, without
                      recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).

                      The Group and the Company consider a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of
                      the loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors and the Group and the Company in full,
                      without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The
                      Group and the Company only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into
                      account by adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.

                      The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which
                      the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                      Credit impaired financial assets

                      At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at amortised
                      cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental
                      impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

                      Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following events:

                      - Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
                      - A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than 90 days

                              past due);
                      - The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial

                              difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider
                              (e.g. the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company on terms that the Group
                              and the Company would not consider otherwise);
                      - It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
                      - The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.

                                                                                                                                          83
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

           (o) Impairment (Cont’d)

                   (i) Financial assets (Cont’d)

                          Write-off policy

                          The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that there
                          is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company determines
                          that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
                          repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be
                          subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for
                          recovery of amounts due. Any recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.

                   (ii) Non-financial assets

                          The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
                          reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists
                          then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

                          An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds
                          its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the profit or loss, unless the
                          asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly against any
                          revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the
                          revaluation surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group
                          that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups.

                          The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use and its fair
                          value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
                          present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
                          money and the risks specific to the asset.

                          Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
                          impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
                          recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case
                          it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that
                          would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.

                          An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.

                          An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary exceeds
                          its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
                          present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the investment including
                          the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is recognised in the profit
                          or loss.

84
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (p) Equity instruments

               An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and of the
               Company after deducting all of their liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.

               Ordinary shares

               Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction
               costs. Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.

       (q)	Provisions

               A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present legal or
               constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits
               will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash
               flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
               specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.

       (r) Operating segments

               An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
               earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
               the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief
               operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make decisions
               about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
               information is available.

       (s) Fair value measurements

               Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as
               the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
               market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
               or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the
               most advantageous market.

               For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate
               economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
               that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

               When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as
               possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
               valuation technique as follows:

               Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can
                            access at the measurement date.

               Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
                            either directly or indirectly.

               Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

               The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change
               in circumstances that caused the transfers.

                                                                                                                                     85
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                            Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    4. REVENUE

                                                Group                                                   Company

    		                                    2022                               2021  2022                          2021
    		
                                          RM                                 RM    RM                            RM

    Revenue from contract with customers  161,111,027 160,539,264                  –                             –
    Sales of manufactured products

    Revenue from other source

    Dividend income		                     –                                  –     – 11,000,000
                                                                                   – 11,000,000
    			 161,111,027 160,539,264

    Sales of manufactured products

    The Group sells a range of manufactured canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of manufactured
    products are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being when the
    customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.

    Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 30.

    Dividend income

    Dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the dividend is established.

     
    5. FINANCE COSTS

                                                                                                        Group

    				                                                                           2022                          2021
    				
                                                                                   RM                            RM

    Interest expense on:			                                                         24,994              124,127
    Bank overdrafts				                                                            569,441              709,367
    Bankers’ acceptance				
    Lease liabilities				                                                           29,179               30,887
    Revolving credit				                                                           120,132              124,020
    Term loans				                                                                 427,337              542,153

    					                                                                          1,171,083            1,530,554

86
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                              Annual Report 2022

                                                                                 NOTES TO THE
                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                 (Cont’d)

6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX

Other than those disclosed in Note 5, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-

                                                           Group                        Company

		                                          2022                  2021    2022                             2021
		
                                            RM                    RM      RM                               RM

Auditors’ remuneration:                        221,363        221,581        60,000                         55,000
- statutory audit		                              37,677         20,000         8,000                        20,000
- other services		                               37,102                –             –
Allowance for inventories obsolescence                                                                             –
Depreciation of property, plant and          4,154,724      3,371,632                –
 equipment		                                    475,654       427,496                –                             –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		                                        71,710                                –
Employee benefit expenses (Note a)          21,093,810     20,837,381                –                     184,510
Gain on disposal of other investment		                  –      (42,590)                                    (42,590)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and                                              –
 equipment		                                  (389,920)      (147,981)               –                             –
Gain on lease modification		                      (2,230)              –             –                             –
Gain on lease termination		                       (5,526)              –                                           –
Impairment loss on:                                                       1,564,836
- amounts due from subsidiaries		                       –              –  4,374,609                                –
- investments in subsidiaries		                         –              –                                           –
- property, plant and equipment		               156,083                –             –                             –
- trade receivables		                            31,466                –             –                             –
- other receivables		                            75,361                –             –                             –
Interest income		                               (59,385)     (111,209)               –                             –
Inventories written off		                               –      658,300               –                             –
Reversal of impairment loss on:
- trade receivables		                             (3,626)      (15,517)              –                             –
- other receivables		                       (1,143,733)                –             –                             –
Reversal of allowance for inventories
 obsolescence		                               (563,116)      (658,300)               –                             –
Realised (gain)/loss on foreign
 exchange, net		                                (53,671)        25,775               –                             –
Rental income		                               (262,518)        (54,600)              –                             –
Short-term lease and lease of low
 value assets:                                  603,678        396,696               –                             –
- premises		                                    174,029        321,100               –                             –
- equipments		                                  433,548        294,589               –                             –
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		    (292,200)      (739,200)               –                             –
Wages subsidy (Note c)		

                                                                                                                      87
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                      Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    6.	PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (cont’d)

    Other than those disclosed in Note 5, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):- (Cont’d)

    (a) Employees benefit expenses comprise:-

                                                                              Group                    Company

    		                                                           2022                2021    2022                       2021
    		
                                                                 RM                  RM      RM                         RM

    Staff costs:                                                  1,140,610      764,948     71,710    184,510
    Directors’ remuneration (Note b)		                           18,170,006   18,436,864            –          –
    Salaries, wages, allowances and overtime                                                        –          –
    Defined benefit plan		                                            28,294      334,918           –          –
    Contributions to defined contribution plan                       558,307      571,151           –          –
    Social security contributions		                                  890,383      729,500           –          –
    Provision for staff termination benefits		                       306,210
                                                                                          –

    			 21,093,810 20,837,381                                                                71,710    184,510

           (b) Directors’ remuneration comprise:-                             Group                    Company

    		                                                           2022                2021    2022                       2021
    		
                                                                 RM                  RM      RM                         RM
                   Directors of the Company:
                   Executive Directors                             903,660    510,971               –          –
                   Salaries and other emoluments		                  54,264     68,544               –          –
                   Contributions to defined contribution plan		         676        923              –          –
                   Social security contributions		
                                                                   958,600    580,438               –          –
                   			
                   Non-executive Directors                         182,010    184,510        71,710    184,510
                   Fees and allowances		
                                                                 1,140,610    764,948        71,710    184,510
                   			

    (c) Wages subsidy
           Represents grant received from the Malaysian Government in relation to wages subsidy for eligible employees.

88
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                               Annual Report 2022

                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE                                                                   Group

				                                                                     2022                  2021
				
                                                                         RM                    RM
       Current income tax:
       - Foreign tax				                                                 923,154        1,326,989

       Deferred tax (Note 22):                                           (15,995)         (17,526)
       Reversal of temporary differences				                             907,159        1,309,463

       Income tax expense for the financial year				

Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) of the estimated assessable
profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.

The reconciliation of the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and to the Company’s tax expense
are as follows:

                                                            Group                    Company

		                                               2022              2021  2022                  2021
		
                                                 RM                RM    RM                    RM

Profit/(loss) before tax		                       2,934,223  3,912,040    (6,263,332) 10,622,378

Tax at the Malaysian statutory                    704,200     938,900    (1,503,200)     2,549,400
 income tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%)               (65,700)    (90,300)               –              –
Effect of different tax rate in other country		  (282,004)    (47,329)               –
Income not subject to tax		                       715,363     606,392                   (2,650,300)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes		        538,600     711,300     1,503,200        100,900
Deferred tax assets not recognised		                                                 –              –
Utilisation of previously unrecognised           (703,300)   (809,500)
 deferred tax assets                                                                 –              –
                                                  907,159   1,309,463
Income tax expense for the financial year                                            –              –

The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available for set-off
against future taxable profits as follows:-

                                                                                        Group

				                                                                     2022                  2021
				
                                                                         RM                    RM

Unutilised tax losses				                                                27,743,600     25,700,200
Unabsorbed capital allowances				                                        16,799,100     15,796,900

					 44,542,700 41,497,100

The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital
allowances carried forward.

The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval to offset
against future taxable profit. The unutilised tax losses of the Company and its subsidiaries in Malaysia will be allowed
to be carried forward for 10 consecutive years of assessment (“YA”) (previously 7 YAs) deemed to be effective from
YA 2019.

                                                                                                                                89
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                      Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

    Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit after tax attributable to
    Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.

                                                                                              Group

    				                                                                     2022                    2021

    Basic earnings per share:			                                             2,027,064        2,602,577
    Profit after tax attributable to the Owners of the Company (RM) 			

    Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:			

    Number of ordinary shares at beginning of the financial year (unit)      493,252,936      246,626,468
                                                                                           –  133,786,413
    Effect of ordinary shares issued				
                                                                              36,962,106       28,506,392
    Effect of rights issue with free warrant *  			
                                                                             530,215,042      408,919,273
    Weighted average number of ordinary shares at end of the financial year

    Basic earnings per share (sen)				                                       0.38                    0.64

    * With the completion of the issuance of rights share on 30 August 2022, the current year and the prior year
           comparatives for earnings per shares were adjusted/restated through retrospective application of a bonus factor
           to the weighted average number of shares. The bonus factor is derived from the division of fair value per share
           immediately before the exercise of rights by the theoretical ex-rights fair value.

    There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares since the reporting date
    and before the authorisation of these financial statements.

    No diluted earnings per share are presented as there were no potential dilutive ordinary shares as at 30 June 2022
    and 30 June 2021.

90
    9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                 REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    				                                                                         Plant,   Furniture, 			
                                                                           machinery
                                                                          and factory     fittings
                                                                          equipment
                                            Freehold                                      and office    Motor Capital work-
                                                  land                              RM
    		                                             RM      Buildings                      equipment     vehicles in-progress        Total
    		                                                             RM     51,315,544                                                  RM
                                                                            3,484,236     RM            RM            RM
                                                                               (40,500)
    Group                                   15,483,682     47,163,144         618,357     5,618,959     1,516,807                –  121,098,136
    2022                                                –       11,000                      384,228        12,934     2,053,898        5,946,296
    Cost                                                –                              –             –                                  (790,325)
    At 1 July 2021                                      –    (588,180)        215,429          5,144     (161,645)               –                –
    Additions                                                          –                                           –   (623,501)
    Disposals                                           –                 55,593,066                 –
    Reclassification                            217,664                –                     19,478        96,135     –             96,135
    Transfer from right-of-use assets                           67,961                                     32,235
     (Note 10)                                                                            6,027,809                   –             552,767
    Exchange differences                                                                                1,496,466

    At 30 June 2022                         15,701,346 46,653,925                                                     1,430,397 126,903,009

    Accumulated Depreciation                –              9,245,685 29,015,852           3,327,346      614,294      – 42,203,177
    At 1 July 2021                                                                                       230,425
    Charge for the financial year           –              803,862        2,663,825       456,612       (122,395)     –             4,154,724
    Disposals
    Transfer from right-of-use assets       –              (95,688)       (32,161)        –               44,312      –             (250,244)
     (Note 10)                                                                                            26,504
    Exchange differences                    –              –              –               –                           –             44,312
                                                                                                         793,140
    At 30 June 2022                         –              32,556         140,771         17,947                      –             217,778

                                            –              9,986,415 31,788,287           3,801,905                   – 46,369,747                                               Annual Report 2022

    Accumulated Impairment Loss                                                                                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    At 1 July 2021                          –              –              –               –             –             –             –
                                                                                                                                                     (Cont’d)
    Impairment loss for the financial year  –              –              –               156,083       –             –             156,083

    At 30 June 2022                         –              –              –               156,083       –             –             156,083

    Net Carrying Amount                     15,701,346 36,667,510 23,804,779              2,069,821     703,326       1,430,397 80,377,179
    At 30 June 2022

91
92

    9. 	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)                                                                                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    				                                                           Plant,  Furniture, 			                                          NOTES TO THE
                                                             machinery                                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                            and factory    fittings
                                                            equipment                                                       (Cont’d)
                                   Freehold                                and office  Motor Capital work-
                                         land                         RM
    		                                    RM    Buildings                  equipment   vehicles in-progress    Total
    		                                                  RM                                                       RM
                                                                           RM          RM           RM

    Group (Cont’d)							

    2021							

    Cost

    At 1 July 2020                 15,789,427 46,274,858 49,358,887        5,200,353   2,731,305    895,155 120,249,985

    Additions                      –            84,395      2,185,365      443,525     251,855      –          2,965,140

    Disposals                      –            –           –              –           (1,414,989)  –          (1,414,989)

    Reclassification               –            852,719     –              –           –            (852,719)  –

    Exchange differences           (305,745)    (48,828)    (228,708)      (24,919)    (51,364)     (42,436)   (702,000)

    At 30 June 2021                15,483,682 47,163,144 51,315,544        5,618,959   1,516,807    – 121,098,136

    Accumulated Depreciation							

    At 1 July 2020                 –            8,576,415 27,183,224       2,906,650   1,484,218    – 40,150,507

    Charge for the financial year  –            711,410     2,008,405      444,196     207,621      –          3,371,632

    Disposals                      –            –           –              –           (1,035,320)  –          (1,035,320)

    Exchange differences           –            (42,140)    (175,777)      (23,500)    (42,225)     –          (283,642)

    At 30 June 2021                –            9,245,685 29,015,852       3,327,346   614,294      – 42,203,177

    Net Carrying Amount							

    At 30 June 2021                15,483,682 37,917,459 22,299,692        2,291,613   902,513      – 78,894,959

                                                                                                                            Annual Report 2022
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

9. 	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

       (i) Assets pledged as security

               Certain freehold land and building with net carrying amount of RM24,718,398 (2021: RM25,080,309) are held as
               security for term loan facilities as disclosed in Note 21.

       (ii) Impairment loss

               The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting
               date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the Group makes an
               estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment was
               derived based on fair value less cost to sell, as well as VIU method using cash flows projection derived from
               the most recent financial forecast and projections approved by the Directors covering a period of 5 years. The
               recoverable amount for certain assets was estimated to be lower than the net carrying amount of property,
               plant and equipment, and hence, and an impairment loss of RM156,083 (2021: Nil) being recognised as “other
               expenses” line item in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June
               2022.

               The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:

               (a) Budgeted gross margin

                      The budgeted gross margin is 22% (2021: 28%). Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
                      preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted
                      period.

               (b) Weighted average growth rate

                      The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 6% (2021: 11%). Revenue growth is projected
                      based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well as taking into
                      consideration of future demand outlook.

               (c) Pre-tax discount rate

                      A pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% (2021: 6.7%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
                      amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the Company as
                      well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.

                                                                                                                                   93
94

    10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS                                                                                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    		                                  Long term    Short term 					                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                        leasehold                                                                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    		                                               leasehold  Hostel     Office     Factory  Motor
    		                                       land *                                                                 (Cont’d)
                                                 RM  land       rental     rental     rental   vehicle   Total
                                                                                                           RM
                                                     RM         RM         RM         RM       RM

    Group							

    2022							

    Cost							

    At 1 July 2021                      1,471,964    5,576,382  500,990    403,995    544,982  189,251   8,687,564

    Additions [Note (i)]                –            –          82,675     –          –        283,147   365,822

    Transfer to property, plant

     and equipment (Note 9)             –            –          –          –          –        (96,135)  (96,135)

    Reversal due to lease

     modification                       –            –          (313,119)  –          –        –         (313,119)

    Lease termination                   –            –          –          (403,995)  –        –         (403,995)

    Exchange differences                –            –          –          –          –        8,098     8,098

    At 30 June 2022                     1,471,964    5,576,382  270,546    –          544,982  384,361   8,248,235

    Accumulated Depreciation							

    At 1 July 2021                      272,355      1,810,841  128,727    84,166     167,686  80,511    2,544,286

    Charge for the financial year       23,069       94,138     166,997    33,667     83,843   73,940    475,654

    Transfer to property, plant

     and equipment (Note 9)             –            –          –          –          –        (44,312)  (44,312)

    Reversal due to lease modification  –            –          (217,444)  –          –        –         (217,444)

    Lease termination                   –            –          –          (117,833)  –        –         (117,833)

    Exchange differences                –            –          –          –          –        3,042     3,042

    At 30 June 2022                     295,424      1,904,979  78,280     –          251,529  113,181   2,643,393

    Net Carrying Amount							

    At 30 June 2022                     1,176,540    3,671,403  192,266    –          293,453  271,180   5,604,842

                                                                                                                    Annual Report 2022
    10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)                                                                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    		                                Long term     Short term 					
                                      leasehold
    		                                              leasehold     Hostel              Office     Factory    Motor
    		                                     land *
                                               RM   land          rental              rental     rental     vehicle          Total
                                                                                                                               RM
                                                    RM            RM                  RM         RM         RM
                                                                                                                       8,508,948
    Group (Cont’d)                    1,471,964     5,576,382     313,119             403,995    544,982    198,506      187,871
    2021                                         –             –  187,871                     –          –          –      (9,255)
    Cost                                         –             –                              –          –
    At 1 July 2020                                                        –                                   (9,255)  8,687,564
    Additions [Note (i)]                            5,576,382                         403,995    544,982
    Exchange differences                                          500,990                                   189,251

    At 30 June 2021                   1,471,964

    Accumulated Depreciation							

    At 1 July 2020                    248,833       1,714,289     8,698               16,833     83,843     46,429     2,118,925

    Charge for the financial year     23,522        96,552        120,029             67,333     83,843     36,217     427,496

    Exchange differences              –             –                              –  –          –          (2,135)    (2,135)

    At 30 June 2021                   272,355       1,810,841     128,727             84,166     167,686    80,511     2,544,286

    Net Carrying Amount							

    At 30 June 2021                   1,199,609     3,765,541     372,263             319,829    377,296    108,740    6,143,278

    * Long term leasehold land with unexpired lease period of more than 50 years.

                                                                                                                                                                Annual Report 2022

                                                                                                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                    (Cont’d)

95
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                             Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)                                                               Group
           (i) Acquisition of right-of-use assets are satisfied by the following:-
                                                                                    2022                            2021
    				
    				                                                                            RM                              RM

                   Cash payments				                                                 85,043                –
                   Lease arrangement				                                            280,779        187,871
                   					
                                                                                    365,822        187,871

    (ii) The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as follows:-

                                                                                                   Group

    				                                                                            2022                            2021
    				
                                                                                    RM                              RM

    Depreciation of right-of-use assets  			                                        475,654        427,496
                                                                                      (2,230)              –
    Gain on lease modification				                                                    (5,526)              –
                                                                                     29,179
    Gain on lease termination				                                                                   30,887
                                                                                    604,405        396,696
    Interest expense on lease liabilities				                                       173,302        321,100

    Short-term leases				

    Lease of low value assets				

    11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES                                                                Company

    				                                                                            2022                            2021
    				
                                                                                    RM                              RM
           Unquoted shares, at cost
           At beginning/end of the year				                                         42,501,620 42,501,620
           			
           Accumulated impairment loss                                              (4,468,003)    (4,468,003)
           At beginning/end of the year				                                         38,033,617     38,033,617

           					

    Capital contribution to subsidiaries                                            51,221,633     27,944,343
    At beginning of the year				                                                                –  23,277,290
    Addition				
                                                                                    51,221,633     51,221,633
    At end of the year				

    Accumulated impairment loss			                                                              –              –
    At beginning of the year				                                                    (4,374,609)                –
    Addition				
                                                                                    (4,374,609)                –
    At end of the year				
                                                                                    46,847,024     51,221,633
    Net capital contribution				
                                                                                    84,880,641     89,255,250
    Net carrying amount				

96
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                       Annual Report 2022

                                                                                          NOTES TO THE
                                                                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                          (Cont’d)

11. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

       Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents amounts due from subsidiaries which are non-trade in nature, unsecured
       and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
       As these amounts are in substance, represent additional investments in the subsidiaries, they are stated at cost less
       accumulated impairment losses.

       The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                                                Effective equity interest

Name of company             Country of          2022  2021                 Principal activities
Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.  incorporation          %     %

                              Malaysia          100   100                  Manufacture and export of canned

                                                                            food and drinks

Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.      Malaysia             100   100                  Trading of canned food, drinks

                                                                            and confectioneries

Fika Foods Corporation     Malaysia             100   100                  Investment holding
 Sdn. Bhd.

Summit Teamtrade (2011)    Malaysia             100   100                  Manufacture of biscuit
 Sdn. Bhd.

P.T. Rex Canning * #       Indonesia            100   100                  Manufacture and export of canned

                                                                            food

Cinta Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia             100   100                  Trading of manufactured biscuit

Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd.        Malaysia             100   100                  Dormant

Best Aqua Food Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia             100   100                  Dormant

Cinta Edar (Selatan)       Malaysia             100   100                  Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd. @

Fika Foods Marketing       Malaysia             100   100                  Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd. @

Gainasia International     British Virgin       100   100                  Dormant
 Limited * ^
                           Islands

* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# In prior year, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning. The 30% equity interest held

       by Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. was transferred to Fika Foods Corporation Sdn. Bhd. during the financial year.
^ The financial statements is reviewed for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ The Directors of the respective subsidiaries have approved to strike off these subsidiaries and is pending for

       submission to the Companies Commission of Malaysia pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016.

Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries

As at 30 June 2022, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment in certain
subsidiaries due to their persistent loss-making and significant accumulated losses position. This has resulted in an
impairment loss of RM4,374,609 (30.06.2021: Nil) being recognised as “other expenses” line item in the Company’s
statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022. The recoverable amounts of the
subsidiaries were derived based on fair value less costs of disposal which were measured based on the net assets
of respective subsidiaries.

                                                                                                                               97
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                Annual Report 2022

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    (Cont’d)

    12. OTHER INVESTMENT                                  Group                   Company

    		                                              2022         2021  2022                                   2021
    		
                                                    RM           RM    RM                                     RM
           At fair value through profit or loss
           Quoted shares                            –     754,000      –                                      754,000
           At beginning of the year		
           Disposal		                               –     (754,000)    –            (754,000)

           At end of the year		                     –            –     –                                      –

    13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION

                                                                                    Group

    				                                                               2022                                   2021
    				
                                                                       RM                                     RM

    Cost 		

    At beginning/end of the year				 11,378,743                                     11,378,743
                                                                                    (4,341,263)
    			

    Accumulated impairment loss			

    At beginning/end of the year				                                   (4,341,263)

    Net carrying amount				                                            7,037,480    7,037,480

    Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill

    Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-

                                                                                    Group

    				                                                               2022                                   2021
    				
                                                                       RM                                     RM

    Manufacturing of canned food 				                                  7,037,480    7,037,480

    For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents the lowest level
    within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.

    Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on VIU calculations determined by discounting
    future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget for 2023 and
    projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.

    The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:

    (i) Budgeted gross margin

           The budgeted gross margin is 15% (2021: 15%). Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
           preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted
           period.

98
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                             Annual Report 2022

                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (Cont’d)

13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)

The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows: (Cont’d)

(ii) Weighted average growth rate

The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 7% (2021: 5%). Revenue growth is projected
based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well as taking into
consideration of future demand outlook.

(iii) Pre-tax discount rate

A pre-tax discount rate of 10.1% (2021: 10.0%) was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the Company as well as
taking into consideration of country risk premium.

Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably possible
changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in determining
the recoverable amounts of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity analysis performed, management concluded that no
reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amounts of the units
to be materially below their carrying amounts.

 
14. INVENTORIES

                                                                                              Group

				                                             2022                                                2021
				
                                                 RM                                                  RM

At cost:			

Raw materials                      			           21,826,500                                   21,973,426
                                                 24,679,076                                   20,752,337
Manufactured inventories				                     10,783,461
                                                                                               9,850,807
Packing materials				                             1,895,774                                    1,326,858
                                                      38,280
Consumables				                                                                                           –

Inventories in transit				

					 59,223,091 53,903,428

Less: Allowance for inventories obsolescence			

(raw materials, packaging and consumables)			

At beginning of the year				                     (1,787,209)                                  (2,445,509)
                                                                                                          –
Addition				                                     (37,102)
                                                                                                 658,300
Reversal				                                     563,116                                                  –

Written off				                                  355,041

At end of the year				                           (906,154) (1,787,209)

Net carrying amount				 58,316,937 52,116,219

			                                              106,973,325                                  106,453,886
Inventories recognised in cost of sales				                    –                                   658,300
Inventories written off				

The Group has made reversal of previously made slow-moving inventories of RM563,116 as the consumables are
being utilised for relevant goods of production during the year. The amount reversed has been included in “other
income” line item in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

                                                                                                                   99
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                  Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     15. TRADE RECEIVABLES                                                                                              Group

     				                                                                                                 2022                 2021
     				
                                                                                                          RM                   RM
            Trade receivables, gross				
                                                                                                          37,068,632 36,083,834

     Less: Allowance for impairment loss			                                                               (2,720,062)   (3,527,638)
            At beginning of the year				                                                                      (31,466)              –
            Additions				                                                                                        3,626
            Reversal				                                                                                       88,065        15,517
            Written off				                                                                                                792,059
                                                                                                          (2,659,837)
            At end of the year				                                                                                      (2,720,062)
                                                                                                          34,408,795
     Trade receivables, net				                                                                                         33,363,772

     The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90 days). Other credit
     terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.

     Trade receivables amounted to RM8,745,048 (2021: RM8,239,730) are held as security for bankers’ acceptance
     facilities as disclosed in Note 21.

     16. OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                                                           Group                     Company

     		                                                                     2022                  2021    2022                 2021
                                                                      Note
                                                                            RM                    RM      RM                   RM

     Sundry receivables, gross		                                            2,264,768      4,017,124      –                    –

     Less: Allowance for impairment loss                                    (2,535,767)    (2,535,767)            –                   –
            At beginning of the year		                                         (75,361)                –          –                   –
            Additions		                                                                                –          –                   –
            Reversal		                                                       1,143,733
                                                                                           (2,535,767)            –                   –
     At end of the year		                                                   (1,467,395)
                                                                                            1,481,357             –                   –
     Sundry receivables, net		                                                 797,373        305,615             –                   –
                                                                             2,479,362                    235,497              20,648
     Deposits                       (i)                                      3,473,857      1,338,803             –                   –
                                                                                                19,000
     Prepayments                    (ii)                                                –                 235,497              20,648
                                                                                            3,144,775
     Amount due from related party  (iii)                                    6,750,592

     Other receivables, net		

     (i) Included in deposits of the Group are deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to RM2,267,000
            (2021: Nil).

     (ii) Included in prepayments of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM1,581,074 (2021:
            RM671,225).

     (iii) In prior year, this amount related to rental receivable from Directors’ related company.

100
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                    Annual Report 2022

                                                       NOTES TO THE
                                        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                       (Cont’d)

17. AMOUNTS DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES

                                                    Company

				                                          2022                                              2021

			                                     Note  RM                                                RM

Amounts due from subsidiaries:

Non-trade, gross			                     (i)   13,731,050 15,116,918

Less: Allowance for impairment loss				                   –                                                 –
       At beginning of the year				           (1,564,836)                                                   –
       Additions				
                                              (1,564,836)                                                   –
At end of the year				
                                              12,166,214                                        15,116,918
Amounts due from subsidiaries, net				

Amounts due to subsidiaries:				

Non-trade			                            (ii)  (2,999,923)                                       (2,963,318)

(i) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances which are collectible on demand.
(ii) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances which are repayable on demand.

18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

       (i) The effective interest rates of the fixed deposit ranging from 1.70% to 2.15% (2021: 2.13%) per annum with
               maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2021: 6 months).

       (ii) In prior year, short-term fund represented investment in highly liquid money market instrument and deposits
               with financial institution in Malaysia. The short-term fund is subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
               The distribution income from this fund was tax exempted and was being treated as interest income by the
               Group. The effective interest rate of the short-term fund was 3.12 % per annum.

                                                                                                                                    101
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                 Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     19. SHARE CAPITAL

                                                            Group and Company

                                           Number of shares                             Amount

     		                                    2022             2021         2022                   2021
     		
                                           Unit             Unit         RM                     RM

     Ordinary shares                       493,252,936      246,626,468  97,903,444     73,742,421
     Issued and fully paid                               –  246,626,468              –  24,161,023
     At beginning of the financial year		
     Issuance of ordinary shares		

     At end of the financial year		 493,252,936 493,252,936              97,903,444 97,903,444

     In prior year, the Company increased its issued and paid up ordinary shares from RM73,742,421 to RM97,903,444
     by way of the issuance of 246,626,468 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10 per share for working
     capital purposes, repayment of bank borrowings, upgrade of machineries and netted off with issuance expenses
     of RM501,624. The new ordinary shares issued in prior year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing issued
     ordinary shares of the Company.

     The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
     shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual interests.

     20. TRANSLATION RESERVE

     The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
     foreign subsidiaries.

      
     21. BORROWINGS

                                                                                        Group

     				                                                                2022                   2021
     				
                                                                         RM                     RM

     Non-current                                                         9,272,106 10,515,773
     Term loans (secured)				

     Current                                                              1,282,896         871,983
     Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				                                      4,264,000      5,070,000
     Bankers’ acceptance - unsecured				                                  8,745,048      8,239,730
                                                                          3,000,000      3,000,000
                                 - secured				                            1,240,121      1,186,821
     Revolving credit (unsecured)				
     Term loans (secured)				                                            18,532,065     18,368,534

     					                                                               27,804,171     28,884,307

     					

102
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                     Annual Report 2022

                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                        (Cont’d)

21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)
       Maturity profile of borrowings:

                                                          Group

				                                          2022               2021
				
                                              RM                 RM

On demand or within 1 year				                18,532,065  18,368,534
                                               3,943,236   4,552,356
More than 1 year and less than 5 years   			   5,328,870   5,963,417

More than 5 years				

				                                          27,804,171 28,884,307

       Term loans                                         Group

				                                          2022               2021
				
                                              RM                 RM
       Term loan 1 (1)				
       Term loan 2 (1)				                    1,806,561   2,344,764
       Term loan 3 (2)				                      593,529     761,015

       					                                  8,112,137   8,596,815

                                              10,512,227 11,702,594

Repayment of term loans:

Within one year				                            1,240,121   1,186,821
                                               1,292,326   1,235,813
More than 1 year and less than 2 years   			   2,650,910   3,316,542
                                               5,328,870   5,963,418
More than 2 years and less than 5 years  			
                                              10,512,227  11,702,594
More than 5 years				

					

       (1) Conventional term loan			
       (2) Islamic term loan			
			

                                                                                            103
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                         Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)

     Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:

     					                                                                                       2022            2021
                                                                                                                      %
     					%
                                                                                                          BLR* + 1.5
     Bank overdrafts				                                   BLR* + 1.5                                     3.86 - 4.90
     Bankers’ acceptance				                               4.02 - 4.50
     Revolving credit				                                                                                         4.13
     Term loans:			                                                4.00
     - Conventional				                                                                                    BLR* - 1.5
     - Islamic				                                          BLR* - 1.5                                   BFR# - 1.25
                                                          BFR# - 1.25

     * BLR - Base Lending Rate
     # BFR - Base Financing Rate

     Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

     (i) charge over certain property, plant and equipment of the Group as disclosed in Note 9;
     (ii) a corporate guarantee of the Company; and
     (iii) certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.

     22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES                                                                        Group

     				                                                                                        2022                  2021
     				
                                                                                                 RM                    RM
            At beginning of the year				
            Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7)				     1,507,883                                      1,525,409
            At end of the year				                          (15,995)                                       (17,526)

                                                          1,491,888                                      1,507,883

     This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:

                                                                                                         Group

     				                                                                                        2022                  2021
     				
                                                                                                 RM                    RM

     Deferred tax liabilities:

     Difference between net carrying amount of 			

      property, plant and equipment and its tax base  		  3,082,241                                      4,744,700
                                                          2,380,188                                      2,420,983
     Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment 			

     					                                                5,462,429                                      7,165,683

     Deferred tax assets:			                                  (54,668)                                     (308,400)
     Unutilised tax losses				                            (3,888,173)                                    (4,928,200)
     Unabsorbed capital allowances				
     Other deductible temporary differences				              (27,700)                                      (421,200)

     					                                                (3,970,541)                                    (5,657,800)

     					                                                 1,491,888                                      1,507,883

104
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                         Annual Report 2022

                                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (Cont’d)

22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (cont’d)

The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the financial
statements are as follows:

                                                                                    Group

				                                                                    2022               2021
				
                                                                        RM                 RM

Unutilised tax losses				                                               27,515,800  25,544,700
                                                                           598,371     384,300
Unabsorbed capital allowances				                                          899,300
                                                                                     2,612,700
Other deductible temporary differences  			

					 29,013,471 28,541,700

23. 	LEASE LIABILITIES                             Hostel    Factory       Motor        Total
                                                    Rental     Rental   Vehicles          RM
       			
       			                                              RM         RM          RM   292,683
       			                                                                          189,188
                                                  148,400     90,000      54,283    185,588
       Group                                       48,600     90,000      50,588
       2022                                               –  135,000      50,588     54,803
       Minimum lease payables                             –               54,803    722,262
       Within 1 year		                                               –  210,262     (59,115)
       More than 1 year but less than 2 years     197,000    315,000     (43,923)   663,147
       More than 2 years but less than 5 years		    (3,210)  (11,982)   166,339
       More than 5 years		                                   303,018                273,060
                                                  193,790                 43,189    174,179
       			                                                    84,233      39,940    172,638
       Less: Future finance charges		             145,638     86,087      39,940
                                                   48,152    132,698      43,270     43,270
       Present value of lease payables		                  –             166,339     663,147
                                                          –          –
       Present value of lease payables                       303,018      43,189    273,060
       Within 1 year		                            193,790               123,150     390,087
       More than 1 year but less than 2 years		               84,233    166,339     663,147
       More than 2 years but less than 5 years		  145,638    218,785
       More than 5 years		                         48,152    303,018

       Present value of lease payables		          193,790

       Analysed as:
       Current portion		
       Non-current portion		

			

                                                                                                                105
106

     23. 	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)                 Hostel    Office    Factory      Motor   Total                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                     Rental    Rental     Rental   Vehicles     RM
            		                                                                                                   NOTES TO THE
            		                                           RM        RM         RM          RM                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

            Group (Cont’d)                           172,800    72,000    90,000   21,426       356,226   (Cont’d)
            2021                                     163,800    72,000    90,000    3,570       329,370
            Minimum lease payables                             198,000   225,000          –     471,600
            Within 1 year                             48,600
            More than 1 year but less than 2 years             342,000   405,000   24,996     1,157,196
            More than 2 years but less than 5 years  385,200   (17,776)  (19,564)  (3,019)      (50,414)
                                                     (10,055)
            		                                                 324,224   385,436   21,977     1,106,782
            Less: Future finance charges             375,145

            Present value of lease payables          166,125    65,436    82,418   18,838       332,817
                                                     160,868    66,910    84,233    3,139       315,150
            Present value of lease payables                    191,878   218,785          –     458,815
            Within 1 year                             48,152
            More than 1 year but less than 2 years             324,224   385,436   21,977     1,106,782
            More than 2 years but less than 5 years  375,145

            Present value of lease payables          166,125    65,436    82,418   18,838       332,817
                                                     209,020   258,788   303,018    3,139       773,965
            Analysed as:
            Current portion                          375,145   324,224   385,436   21,977     1,106,782
            Non-current portion

            		

                                                                                                          Annual Report 2022
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                     Annual Report 2022

                                                                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                                                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                        (Cont’d)

23.	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)

The range of interest rates per annum at the reporting date for the lease liabilities are as follows:

			                                                                    Hostel       Office      Factory         Motor
			                                                                    Rental     Rental *       Rental      Vehicles

                                                                             %            %            %              %

Group                                                                                                      4.68 - 4.96

2022

Effective interest rate		                                              2.25              NA     2.20

2021

Effective interest rate		                                              2.25              2.25   2.20                4.68

* Office rental has been terminated during the financial year.

24. TRADE PAYABLES

       The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90
       days).

25. OTHER PAYABLES

                                                                                  Group                    Company

		                                                                     2022              2021   2022                2021
                                                                 Note
                                                                       RM                RM     RM                  RM

Sundry payables		                                                      5,020,346  3,406,911     179,498       6,394
                                                                       4,018,329  4,850,971      75,874     76,590
Accruals		                                                                                              –
                                                                         306,210             –          –          –
Provision for staff termination benefits		                             2,720,305  2,601,218             –          –
                                                                       8,603,808  4,323,798             –  118,510
Retirement benefits             (i)                                                                                –
                                                                         605,056    675,708
Amounts due to Directors        (ii)

Amounts due to related parties  (iii)

			                                                                    21,274,054 15,858,606    255,372    201,494

                                                                                                                                            107
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                              Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     25. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

     (i) Retirement benefits

     A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit plans that
     provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for employees.

                                                                                                 Group

     				                                                                             2022              2021
     				
                                                                                      RM                RM

     Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations			

     At beginning of the year				                                                     2,601,218       2,698,376

     Current service cost and interest				                                            313,730         334,918

     Past service cost				                                                            (285,436)         –

     Actuarial gain in other comprehensive income			                                  –               (306,288)

     Exchange differences				                                                         90,793          (125,788)

     At end of the year				                                                           2,720,305       2,601,218

                    Expense recognised in profit or loss                                         Group

     				                                                                             2022              2021
     				
                                                                                      RM                RM
                    Current service cost and interest				
                    Past service cost				                                              313,730        334,918
                    					                                                             (285,436)               –

                                                                                      28,294          334,918

     The expense is recognised in the following line item in the statement of comprehensive income:-

                                                                                                 Group

     				                                                                             2022              2021
     				
                                                                                      RM                RM

     Staff costs				                                                                  28,294          334,918

                    Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income             Group

     				                                                                             2022              2021
     				
     			                                                                              RM                RM

                    At beginning of the year				                                      706,800         400,512
                    Recognised during the year				                                            –       306,288

                    At end of the year				                                            706,800         706,800

108
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                              Annual Report 2022

                                                 NOTES TO THE
                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                 (Cont’d)

25. OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

(i) Retirement benefits (Cont’d)

Actuarial assumptions

                                                          Group

				                                   2022                      2021
				
                                       %                         %

Discount rate				                                  7.22               6.82
                                                     7.0                2.0
Salary increment rate				                            5.0                5.0

Disability rate				                    15% up to the      15% up to the
                                       age of 30 and      age of 30 and
Resignation rate			
                                             decrease           decrease
 20 - 30                          			  linearly to 0%     linearly to 0%
                                        at retirement      at retirement
 31 - 40				
                                                    age                age
 41 - 45				

 46 - 50				

 51 - 54				

 > 55				

(ii) These amounts are unsecured, interest free advances which are repayable on demand.

(iii) These amounts mainly relate to transportation charges and warehouse management fee payable to Directors’
       related companies.

26. REBATE LIABILITY

       Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against amounts
       payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.

27. DIVIDENDS

       On 8 October 2021, the Directors declared an interim single tier dividend of RM0.002 per ordinary share for the
       financial year ended 30 June 2021 amounting to RM986,505, which was subsequently paid by the Company on 9
       November 2021.

28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES

       Identity of related parties

       For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and to the Company
       if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence
       over the party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the
       party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be individuals or other
       entities.

       The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties and key
       management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the Company have substantial
       financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.

                                                                                                                                      109
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                   Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)

     Related party balances and transactions

     The related party balances are shown in Notes 16, 17 and 25 respectively. The related party transactions of the Group
     and of the Company are shown below:

                                                                                      Company

     				                                                                  2022                2021
     				
                                                                           RM                  RM

     Transactions with subsidiaries:                                          36,605                –
     Advances from				                                                     1,385,868   (24,413,982)
     Repayment from/(advances to)				

                                                                                       Group

     				                                                                  2022                2021
     				
                                                                           RM                  RM
            Transactions with related parties:
            Deposit paid for lease of office				                                3,600             –
            Short-term lease of office				                                   112,538      72,312
            Purchase of goods				
            Rental income				                                                 33,272              –
            Transportation charges				                                       (36,000)    (19,000)
            Travelling expenses				                                        4,456,676   2,425,470
            Upkeep of motor vehicles				                                      23,524      26,470
            Warehouse management				                                          95,961      52,317
                                                                             254,400     341,320

     Compensation of key management personnel

     Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
     and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management
     personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as certain senior management
     personnel of the Group and of the Company.

     The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to key management personnel during the financial year are
     as follows:

                                                              Group                   Company

     		                                            2022              2021  2022                2021
     		
                                                   RM                RM    RM                  RM

     Directors’ remuneration:                      182,010    184,510      71,710      184,510
     Fee and allowances		                          903,660    510,971             –            –
     Salaries and other emoluments		                                              –            –
     Contributions to defined contribution plan		   54,264     68,544             –            –
     Social security contributions		                    676        923

     			                                           1,140,610  764,948      71,710      184,510

110
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                 Annual Report 2022

                                                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                    (Cont’d)

28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)

Compensation of key management personnel (Cont’d)

                                                              Group                       Company

		                                                 2022              2021  2022                    2021
		
                                                   RM                RM    RM                      RM

Key management personnel:                          944,726    957,619             –               –
Salaries and other emoluments		                     30,708     76,767             –               –
Contributions to defined contribution plan		        22,226     10,178             –               –
Social security contributions		
                                                                                  –               –
			                                                997,660    1,044,564
                                                                           71,710         184,510
Total remuneration		                               2,138,270  1,809,512

29. CAPITAL COMMITMENT                                                                    Group

				                                                                       2022                    2021
				
                                                                           RM                      RM
       Authorised and contracted for:			
       Acquisition of machineries				                                      2,267,000               –

30. OPERATING SEGMENTS

The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
canned food, drinks and biscuits. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) reviews
internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis. Accordingly, information by operating
segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not presented.

Geographical area

The Group operates in four principal geographical areas – Malaysia (country of domicile), United States of America
(“USA”), Europe and Asia.

Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets respectively
are as follows:

                                                              Group                       Group

                                                   External revenue        Non-current assets*

		                                                 2022              2021  2022                    2021
		
                                                   RM                RM    RM                      RM

Malaysia		                                    68,458,552      55,511,176   78,048,550     77,771,767
USA			                                        51,710,268      56,488,105               –              –
Europe		                                      35,311,763      41,879,830               –              –
Asia (excludes Malaysia)		
                                               5,630,444       6,660,153   14,970,951     14,303,950

			 161,111,027 160,539,264                                                93,019,501 92,075,717

* Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets.

                                                                                                                                111
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

            Categories of Financial Instruments

            The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets (excluding prepayments) and financial liabilities are all categorised
            as amortised costs.

            Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

            The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity
            risk and foreign currency risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability
            of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.

            Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group. Management continually monitors the Group’s risk
            management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between risk and control is achieved. Risk management
            policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the market conditions and the Group’s activities.

            There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it manages and
            measures the risk.

            (a) Credit risk

                    Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its
                    contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the individual characteristics
                    of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from loans and advances to
                    subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior years.

                    Trade receivables

                    Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                    Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
                    Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business partners with
                    good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.

                    At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit impaired.

                    The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full) when there is
                    no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does
                    not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject
                    to write-off.

                    Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

                    There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year. 

                    Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                    As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying
                    amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.

112
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

       Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

       (a) Credit risk (Cont’d)

               Trade receivables (Cont’d)

               Credit risk concentration profile

               The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on an ongoing
               basis.

               The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 4 customers (2021: 3
               customers) constituting 30% (2021: 22%) of gross trade receivables of the Group.

               Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

               In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate actions
               (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to ensure that receivables that
               are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable values.

               The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at lifetime expected
               credit losses as disclosed in Note 3(o)(i). The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual
               and collective basis.

               For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can be individually
               managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has reasonable and supportable
               information available to assess the impairment individually.

               For collective assessment, the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision matrix for
               collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit risk characteristics, the
               number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have similar risk characteristics.

               Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable progressing
               through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experienced over the
               prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors. The Group
               also considers differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over which the historical data
               has been collected, (b) current economic conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the
               expected lives of the receivables.

                                                                                                                                  113
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                     Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

     (a) Credit risk (Cont’d)

     Trade receivables (Cont’d)

     Impairment losses

     The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as at
     30 June 2022 and 30 June 2021:

     				                                                           Gross            Loss  Net balance
     				                                                        carrying    allowances               RM
     				                                                        amount
     				                                                                              RM
                                                                       RM

     Group                                                       19,958,039  (234,924) 19,723,115
     2022
     Not past due			

     Past due:					

     - Less than 30 days			                                      5,733,277   (182,750)     5,550,527
                                                                                           5,582,423
     - 31 to 90 days			                                          5,894,249   (311,826)

     Credit impaired:					

     - More than 90 days			                                      4,415,431   (862,701)     3,552,730

     				 16,042,957                                                         (1,357,277) 14,685,680

     Credit impaired:					

     - Individually impaired			                                  1,067,636   (1,067,636)   –

     				 37,068,632                                                         (2,659,837) 34,408,795

     2021                                                        25,060,487  (194,450)     24,866,037
     Not past due			
                                                                                            3,998,121
     Past due:					                                                                         2,141,839

     - Less than 30 days			                                      4,266,567   (268,446)      2,357,775
                                                                                            8,497,735
     - 31 to 90 days			                                          2,537,412   (395,573)
                                                                                                       –
     Credit impaired:					                                                                 33,363,772

     - More than 90 days			                                      3,183,198   (825,423)

     				                                                        9,987,177   (1,489,442)

     Credit impaired:					

     - Individually impaired			                                  1,036,170   (1,036,170)

     				 36,083,834                                                         (2,720,062)

114
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

       Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

       (a) Credit risk (Cont’d)

               Trade receivables (Cont’d)

               Impairment losses (Cont’d)

               Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired

               Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with good payment records
               and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group.

               Receivables that are past due but not impaired

               The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as there have been
               no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still considered recoverable. These trade
               receivables relate mostly to customers with slower repayment patterns, for whom there is no history of default.
               The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancement over these balances

               Credit impaired

               The Group assesses impairment of trade receivables on individual and collective basis. For individual
               assessment, the Group has reasonable and supportable information available to assess the impairment
               individually. Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to have
               higher credit risk, are monitored individually.

               Trade receivables that are individually or collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
               debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These receivables are not secured by any
               collateral or credit enhancements.

               Inter-company loans and advances

               Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

               The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the abilities
               of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.

               Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

               As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from subsidiaries are
               represented by their carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. Loans and advances provided are
               not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit enhancements.

                                                                                                                                  115
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD   Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

            Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

            (a) Credit risk (Cont’d)

                    Inter-company loans and advances (Cont’d)

                    Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                    Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand, expected
                    credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded at the reporting date.

                    Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
                    assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial positions deteriorate
                    significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of subsidiaries’ loans and advances
                    when they are payable, the Company considers the subsidiaries’ loans or advances to be credit impaired when
                    subsidiaries are unlikely to repay the loan or advances to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid
                    resources when the loans are demanded.

                    The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using internal
                    information available.

                    As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk given the
                    subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high probability of default
                    for the loans and advances to subsidiaries. As a result, the Company has provided allowances for ECLs on
                    amounts due from subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 17.

                    Other receivables

                    Expected credit loss of other receivable is determined individually after considering the financial strength of the
                    other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risks is represented by
                    their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The Group has provided allowances for expected
                    credit losses on these amounts as disclosed in Note 16.

                    Credit risk on deposits are mainly arising from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities deposit for
                    rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services and thus have low credit
                    risks. As at the end of the reporting period, no allowance for doubtful debts is necessary in respect of the
                    deposits.

                    Cash and cash equivalents

                    The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting period, the
                    maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial
                    position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.

                    Financial guarantees

                    Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                    The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
                    The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the
                    subsidiaries.

116
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 Annual Report 2022

                                    NOTES TO THE
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                    (Cont’d)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

       Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

       (a) Credit risk (Cont’d)

               Financial guarantees (Cont’d)

               Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

               The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM19,243,127 (2021: RM20,704,431)
               representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the reporting period. The
               financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’ banking facilities.

               Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

               The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial
               positions deteriorate significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:-

               - The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
               - The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.

               The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using internal
               information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the probability of the financial
               guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as the borrowings of the subsidiaries are
               adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 21. Should the subsidiaries defaulted any loan repayments,
               the proceeds from the realisation of assets will be able to satisfy the outstanding debts.

       (b) Foreign currency risk

               Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
               because of changes in foreign exchange rates.

               The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other
               than the functional currency of the Group entities, which is RM as disclosed in Note 2(c). The currencies giving
               rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), Euro (“EUR”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) and Indonesian
               Rupiah (“IDR”).

               The Group also holds cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign purchases
               as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.

               Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group entities are
               kept to an acceptable level.

                                                                                                                                    117
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                         Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

     (b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)

     Exposure to foreign currency risk

     The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional currency of the
     Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period was:

     		                                                          Denominated in

     			                                 USD                     EUR             IDR       Total

     			                                 RM                      RM              RM        RM

     Group                               14,250,304                      –              –  14,250,304
     2022                                   763,963              108,933         39,479       912,375
     Trade receivables		
     Other receivables		                  1,729,389                      –              –   1,729,389
     Cash and cash equivalents		         (8,942,129)                     –              –  (8,942,129)
     Trade payables		                    (8,745,048)                     –              –  (8,745,048)
     Borrowings		

     			                                 (943,521)               108,933         39,479    (795,109)

     		                                                          Denominated in

     			                                 USD                     SGD             IDR       Total

     			                                 RM                      RM              RM        RM

     2021                                 15,420,014             706,148                –   16,126,162
     Trade receivables		                      157,785                    –       39,479         197,264
     Other receivables		                      306,014                    –                      306,014
     Cash and cash equivalents                                           –              –
     Trade payables		                    (10,918,797)                    –              –  (10,918,797)
     Borrowings		                         (8,239,730)                                   –   (8,239,730)

     			 (3,274,714)                                             706,148         39,479     (2,529,087)

118
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                        Annual Report 2022

                                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                           (Cont’d)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

(b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)

Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis

The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign currencies as
at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:

                                                                          Group

		                                                          Increase/(Decrease)
               					
               					                                        2022                 2021

                                                            RM                   RM

Effect on results after tax/equity:                          35,854        124,439
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			                  (35,854)      (124,439)

            - Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			                  (4,139)               –
			                                                           4,139                –
RM/EUR - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%)				

            - Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			

RM/SGD - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			                        –              (26,834)
            - Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%)				                       –               26,834

			                                                         (1,500)               (1,500)
RM/IDR - Strengthened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			                   1,500                 1,500

            - Weakened by 5% (2021: 5%) 			

(c) Interest rate risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly from
interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.

In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective interest
rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed in Notes 18, 21
and 23 respectively.

Exposure to interest rate risk

The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:

                                                                          Group

				                                                        2022                 2021
				
                                                            RM                   RM

Fixed rate instruments                                      900,000       350,000
Financial asset:
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				                       (663,147)   (1,106,782)
			                                                         (13,009,048)  (13,309,730)
Financial liabilities:
- Lease liabilities				                                      (3,000,000)   (3,000,000)
- Bankers’ acceptance				
- Revolving credit				

					 (15,772,195) (17,066,512)

                                                                                                                    119
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                             Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

     (c) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)

     Exposure to interest rate risk (Cont’d)

     The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
     amounts as at the end of the reporting period was: (Cont’d)

                                                                                  Group

     				                                                            2022                2021
     				
                                                                     RM                  RM

     Floating rate instruments                                       –            1,777,373
     Financial asset:
     - Short-term fund				                                           (1,282,896)  (871,983)
     			
     Financial liabilities:			                                       (10,512,227) (11,702,594)
     - Bank overdrafts				
     - Term loans				

     					 (11,795,123) (10,797,204)

     Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

     The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably possible
     change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:-

                                                                                  Group

     		                                                              Increase/(Decrease)
                    					
                    					                                            2022                2021

                                                                     RM                  RM

     Effect on results after tax/equity:			

     Increase of 50 basis points (2021: 50 basis points)			          (44,821)            (41,029)
                                                                      44,821              41,029
     Decrease of 50 basis points (2021: 50 basis points)         		

     (d)	Liquidity risk

            Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations
            associated with financial liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily
            from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s objective
            are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.

            The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity profile,
            operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding
            needs are met. In addition, the Group and the Company maintain sufficient levels of cash and available banking
            facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet their working capital requirements.

120
     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)

     (d)	Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

     The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based
     on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
     of the reporting period):

     		                                                                                     Contractual Cash Flows

     			                                                         On demand

     		                                  Carrying                or within			                                       More than

     		                                  amount                  1 year       1 – 2 years   2 – 5 years             5 years       Total
                                                                                                                                    RM
     		                                  RM                      RM           RM            RM                      RM

     2022                                 1,282,896               1,282,896              –             –                       –   1,282,896
     Group                               13,009,048              13,009,048              –             –                       –  13,009,048
     Bank overdrafts                                                                     –             –                       –
     Bankers’ acceptance                  3,000,000               3,000,000   1,660,716     3,475,379               6,220,316      3,000,000
     Revolving credit                    10,512,227               1,660,716              –             –                       –  13,017,127
     Term loans                          19,823,659              19,823,659              –             –                       –  19,823,659
     Trade payables                      21,274,054              21,274,054     189,188       185,588                  54,803     21,274,054
     Other payables
     Lease liabilities                       663,147                 292,683                                                         722,262

     		                                  69,565,031              60,343,056   1,849,904     3,660,967               6,275,119     72,129,046

     Company                                        –            10,207,612   1,660,716     3,475,378               3,899,421     19,243,127                                              Annual Report 2022
     Financial guarantee *                 255,372                  255,372              –             –                       –     255,372
     Other payables                      2,999,923                                       –             –                       –                                     NOTES TO THE
     Amounts due to subsidiaries                                  2,999,923                                                        2,999,923                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                         3,255,295                            1,660,716     3,475,378               3,899,421
     		                                                          13,462,907                                                       22,498,422                  (Cont’d)

121
122

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)                                                                                                                                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (Cont’d)                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     (d)	Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
                                                                                                                                                              (Cont’d)
     The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting period based
     on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end
     of the reporting period): (Cont’d)

     		                                                                                    Contractual Cash Flows

     			                                                         On demand

     		                                  Carrying                or within			                                      More than

     		                                  amount                  1 year      1 – 2 years   2 – 5 years             5 years                Total
                                                                                                                                            RM
     		                                  RM                      RM          RM            RM                      RM

     2021                                   871,983                 871,983             –             –                       –              871,983
     Group                               13,309,730              13,309,730             –             –                       –           13,309,730
     Bank overdrafts                                                                    –             –                       –
     Bankers’ acceptance                  3,000,000               3,000,000  1,648,739     4,251,351               7,101,885               3,000,000
     Revolving credit                    11,702,594               1,648,739             –             –                       –           14,650,714
     Term loans                          20,003,757              20,003,757             –             –                       –           20,003,757
     Trade payables                      15,858,606              15,858,606    329,370       471,600                          –           15,858,606
     Other payables
     Lease liabilities                    1,106,782                 356,226                                                                1,157,196

     		                                  65,853,452              55,049,041  1,978,109     4,722,951               7,101,885              68,851,986

     Company                                        –            10,590,722  1,648,739     4,251,351               4,213,619              20,704,431
     Financial guarantee *                 201,494                  201,494             –             –                       –              201,494
     Other payables                      2,963,318                                      –             –                       –
     Amounts due to subsidiaries                                  2,963,318                                                                2,963,318
                                         3,164,812                           1,648,739     4,251,351               4,213,619
     		                                                          13,755,534                                                               23,869,243

     * This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.                      Annual Report 2022
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                    Annual Report 2022

                                                                       NOTES TO THE
                                                        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                       (Cont’d)

32. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION

       Financial instruments at fair value

       As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any valuation
       method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.

       There was no material transfer between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the financial year.

       Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value

       Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of
       fair values

       The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings
       approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments and insignificant
       impact of discounting.

       The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be re-priced to
       market interest rate on or near reporting date.

33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability
to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with
debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital. Net debt
includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents whilst total capital is equity attributable to
Owners of the Company.

The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2022 and 30 June 2021, which are within the Group’s objective of capital management
are as follows:

		                                                                     Group
					
					                                                   2022                  2021

                                                        RM                    RM

Borrowings (Note 21)				                                27,804,171     28,884,307
Lease liabilities (Note 23)				                            663,147      1,106,782

					                                                   28,467,318 29,991,089
			
Less:			                                                (7,890,165)    (12,500,887)
- Cash and bank balances				                              (900,000)       (350,000)
- Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks 			                     –
- Short-term fund				                                                   (1,777,373)

					                                                   (8,790,165) (14,628,260)

Total net debts				 19,677,153 15,362,829

Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company  		 129,714,375 127,404,424

Debt to equity ratio				                                0.15                  0.12

       The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
 

                                                                                                                                      123
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                              Annual Report 2022

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (cont’d)

            There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

            Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the following:

            (i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., and the Company are required to comply
                    with the maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio
                    is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible networth (“TNW”), of which TNW is
                    defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties; and

            (ii) Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times. For the purpose
                    of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total networth (less intangibles and
                    pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding company. Total bank borrowings encompasses
                    the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest free.

            As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as mentioned
            above.

     34. EVENT SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF FINANCIAL YEAR

            The Company has completed a fund-raising exercise subsequent to the financial year for a renounceable rights
            issue for ordinary shares at RM0.10 per rights share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Shares held,
            together with 54,805,881 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Right Shares subscribed. With 164,417,645
            Rights Shares subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The Rights Shares were
            listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.

     35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES

     The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation:

     					 As previously                                                                                          As
                                                                                                      reclassified
                                             reported
                                                                                                                 RM
     					                                   RM

     2021			                                 (20,652,871) (20,837,381)
     Group                                   (25,666,196) (25,481,686)
     Statement of Comprehensive Income:
     Staff costs				
     Other operating expenses				

     Statements of Financial Position:

     Current Assets

     Property, plant and equipment      			  78,903,357                                               78,894,959
                                              6,134,880                                                6,143,278
     Right-of-use assets				

124
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                              Annual Report 2022

                                                 NOTES TO THE
                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                 (Cont’d)

35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES (cont’d)

The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation: (Cont’d)

					 As previously                                               As
                                                      reclassified
                                       reported
                                                                 RM
					                                  RM

2021 (Cont’d)                          2,377,052                                                          2,059,573
Group (Cont’d)                                    –                                                         317,479
Statements of Cash Flows:
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Changes in working capital:
 Trade and other payables				
 Rebate liability				

Company                                         –                                                         (184,510)
Statement of Comprehensive Income:			           –                                                         (235,702)
Staff costs				                        (420,212)
Other operating expenses				                                                                                       –
Other expenses				
                                       15,137,566          20,648
		                                                 –  15,116,918
Statement of Financial Position
Current Assets			                      3,164,812                                                            201,494
Other receivables				                             –                                                       2,963,318
Amounts due from subsidiaries				

		
Current Liabilities			
Other payables				
Amounts due to subsidiaries				

                                                                                                                      125
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                             Annual Report 2022

     LIST OF
     PROPERTIES

     AS AT 30 JUNE 2022

     Location/                          Description        Tenure       Land area        Date of       Net book Value
     (Registered owner)                (Lot/Title No)   (Approx. age    (Built up)    Acquisition/       30/6/2022
                                      Industrial Land   of building)                  *Revaluation          (RM)
     Plot 125,                          with factory                      sq. ft.
     Bukit Minyak                                       60 years with               *30 August 2012      12,192,757
     Industrial Park,                 Industrial land     41 years     6.0052 Acre
     Seberang Perai Tengah,                              remaining      (261,586)
     Pulau Pinang.                    Industrial Land    (19 years)
                                        with factory                      sq. ft.
     Plot 126,                                          60 years with
     Bukit Minyak                     Industrial Land     51 years     1.74236      *30 August 2012    7,714,907
     Industrial Park,                                    remaining       acre
     Seberang Perai Tengah,               3 Storey        (9 years)
     Pulau Pinang.                    Semi-Detached                      8,120      *30 November 2012  2,046,822
                                                        50 years with  sq. meters
     JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,           Factory         22 years
     Beji, Pasuraun, Jawa Timur,          Type B         remaining       15,310     13 August 2014     5,424,914
     Indonesia.                       3 Storey terrace   (26 years)    sq. meters
                                        shop office
     No. 00003, Desa Beji,                              50 years with    2,024      10 August 2016     4,315,311
     Kecamatan Beji,                  Industrial land     20 years     sq. meters
     Kabupaten Pasuruan,               with Factory      remaining
     Provinsi Jawa Timur, Indonesia.    cum office
                                                         Leasehold
     No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,
     Taman Industri Alam Jaya,                          Freehold          149       5 August 2016      1,302,619
     Bandar Puncak Alam,                                               sq. meters
     42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.
                                                        Freehold       2.3051       *26 September 2019 19,100,467
     22, Jalan Perniagaan                                              hectares
     Seri Tambun,
     Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
     14100 Simpang Ampat,
     Pulau Pinang.

     No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
     Sungai Suloh,
     Mukim Minyak Beku,
     83000 Batu Pahat, Johor

126
                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                         No. of Ordinary Shares held
                                                                CDS Account No.
                    [Registration No. 199301027926 (282664-K)]  Telephone No.
                                                                Email Address
                    (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                                                    FORM OF PROXY

   *I/We (Full Name),
   bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
   of (Full Address)

   being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-

   First Proxy “A”

   Full Name (in Block Capital)                                 NRIC No./ Passport No.                Proportion of Shareholdings
                                                                                                                Represented

                                                                                                      No. of Shares       %

   Full Address

   *and/or                                                      NRIC No./ Passport No.                Proportion of Shareholdings
   Second Proxy “B”                                                                                             Represented

    Full Name (in Block Capital)                                                                      No. of Shares       %

    Full Address

                                                                                                                          100%

   or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on *my/ our
   behalf at the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at the Green III Sports Wing, Tropicana Golf &
   Country Resort, Jalan Kelab Tropicana, 47410 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Tuesday, 29 November 2022 at 10:00 a.m. or at any
   adjournment thereof.

   (Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given,
   the proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)

   * Strike out whichever is inapplicable

   No.                                                          Agenda
    1.
          To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 together with the Reports of the Directors
    2.
          and the Auditors thereon.
    3.
   4(a).                                                                                                             For  Against

   4(b).  To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting to
          RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 and thereafter.
   5(a).
   5(b).                                                                                   (Resolution 1)

    6.    To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 30 November 2022

    7.    until the next AGM of the Company.                                               (Resolution 2)
    8.
    9.    To re-elect Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause
    10.
          115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.

                                                                                           (Resolution 3)

          To re-elect Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.

                                                                                           (Resolution 4)

          To re-elect Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.            (Resolution 5)

          To re-elect Mr. Kajendra Pathmanathan, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the

          Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.  (Resolution 6)

          To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until the

          conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. (Resolution7)

                                                                Special Business

          Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.                    (Resolution 8)

          Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholder Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a

          Revenue or Trading Nature.                                                       (Resolution 9)

          Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares.        (Resolution 10)

          Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director (Resolution 11)

   Signed this      day of                                      , 2022

✄                      Signature of Member                                                   Common Seal to be affixed here if
   		                                                                                      Member is a corporation, if applicable
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Eighth AGM (“Meeting”):

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 18 November 2022
        shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and
        vote in his stead.

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
        vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and vote at the same
        Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by
        each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the
        Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting

3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized in
        writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under the hand
        of an officer or attorney duly authorized.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
        multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
        (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
        appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed or a duly
        notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar, Securities Services
        (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490
        Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any
        adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and
        voting in person at the 28th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy authority
        in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement of the Meeting or
        adjournment thereof.

        Please refer to the Administrative Guide on the Conduct of a Physical General Meeting available for download at www.
        rexmalaysia.com/ for further details.

6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
        approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial Statements to be
        laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
   Fold this flap for sealing

   Then fold here                                                            AFFIX
                                                                             STAMP
                                 The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
                                 Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                                 Level 7, Menara Milenium,
                                 Jalan Damanlela,
                                 Pusat Bandar Damansara,
                                 Damansara Heights,
                                 50490 Kuala Lumpur,
                                 Wilayah Persekutuan.

   1st fold here

✄
