CONTENTS                                        2                  8

                                           Notice of Annual      Corporate
                                           General Meeting       Information

  9                    13                        15                 31

Profile of        Profile of Key Senior    Corporate Governance  Sustainability
Directors              Management           Overview Statement     Statement

    36                  40                      41                 43

Audit Committee   Statement of Directors’      Statement on       Additional
       Report         Responsibility for    Risk Management      Compliance
                                           and Internal Control  Information
                  preparing the Financial
                          Statements

   44                48                      50                       52

 Management         Analysis of            Thirty Largest              Analysis of
Discussion and    Shareholdings            Shareholders          Warrant A Holdings

     Analysis

 55                56                         61                   61

Corporate         Directors’               Statement by           Statutory
Structure           Report                    Directors          Declaration

    62                67                       68                    70

  Independent          Statements            Statements of          Statements of
Auditors’ Report  of Comprehensive         Financial Position    Changes in Equity

                          Income

   72                   77                 148                   Form of Proxy

Statements of     Notes to the Financial      List of
  Cash Flows             Statements        Properties
          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

2
          Annual Report 2023

  NOTICE OF
  ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad
will be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan on Monday, 27 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the
following purposes:-

AS ORDINARY BUSINESS                                                                   (Please refer to the
                                                                                                  Note No. 6)
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
       30 June 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors                (Resolution 1)
       thereon.
                                                                                              (Resolution 2)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive
       Directors amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the
       financial year ending 30 June 2024 and thereafter.

3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000
       from 27 November 2023 until the next AGM of the Company.

4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
       Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
       themselves for re-election:-

       (a) Mr. Tai Keat Chai; and                                                      (Resolution 3)
       (b) Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam;                                                  (Resolution 4)
                                                                                       (Resolution 5)
5. To re-elect Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, who is due to retire in accordance
       with Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered  (Resolution 6)
       herself for re-election.

6. To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the
       Company until the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors
       to fix their remuneration.

AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following   (Resolution 7)
Ordinary Resolutions:-

7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
       -AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

“ THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution
of the Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act,
to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company from time to time
at such price and upon such terms and conditions, for such purposes and
to such person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in their absolute
discretion deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of
the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being;

THAT pursuant to Section 85 if the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of
the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive
the statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be
offered new shares of the Company ranking equally to the existing issued
shares arising from any issuance of new shares in the Company pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act;

AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa
Securities; AND FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately
upon the passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                   3

                                     Annual Report 2023

                           NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                       (Cont’d)

8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2                                                                   (Resolution 8)
       -	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
         RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR
         TRADING NATURE

       “THAT subject to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
       Requirements, approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its
       subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into and to give effect to the category
       of the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature
       from time to time with the Related Parties as specified in Section 2.5 of the
       Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023, provided that
       such transactions are:-

       (i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;

       (ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;

       (iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial
              terms which are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those
              generally available to the public; and

       (iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,

              (the “Mandate”);

       AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution
       and shall continue to be in force until:-

       (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
              Company following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which
              time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next
              AGM, the authority is renewed;

       (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
              after that date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
              Act (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant
              to Section 340(4) of the Act); or

       (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
              of the Company in a general meeting;

              whichever is the earlier;

       AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such
       acts and things (including executing all such documents as may be required),
       as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”
          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                   (Resolution 9)

4
          Annual Report 2023

    NOTICE OF
    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

    (Cont’d)

     9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
            -	PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE
              ITS OWN SHARES

            “THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
            Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market
            Listing Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations
            and guidelines for the time being in force and the approvals of all relevant
            governmental and/or regulatory authorities, approval be and is hereby given
            to the Company to purchase such number of ordinary shares as may be
            determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa
            Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit,
            necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
            of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-

            (a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held
                    by the Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per
                    centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as
                    quoted on Bursa Securities as at the point of purchase; and

            (b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of
                    purchasing its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits
                    of the Company based on the latest audited financial statements and/or
                    the latest unaudited financial statements (where applicable) available at
                    the time of the purchase.

            THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and
            shall continue to be in force until:-

            (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
                    Company following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at
                    which time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the
                    next AGM, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to
                    conditions;

            (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
                    after that date is required by law to be held; or

            (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders
                    of the Company in a general meeting;

            whichever occurs first;

            AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own
            ordinary shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with
            the ordinary shares purchased in their absolute discretion in the following
            manners:-

            (a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or

            (b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution
                    as dividend to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa
                    Securities and/or transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any)
                    and/or transfer as purchase consideration;

            (c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or

            in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders
            made pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any
            other relevant authority for the time being in force.

            AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all
            acts, deeds and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the
            best interest of the Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal
            of Share Buy-Back Authority with full powers to assent to any conditions,
            modifications, variations and/or amendments as may be imposed by the
            relevant authorities and to take all such steps, and do all such acts and things
            as they may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”
                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                   5

                                     Annual Report 2023

                           NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                       (Cont’d)

10. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4                                                         (Resolution 10)
       - RETENTION OF TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN MOHD ZAIN AS AN
        INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR

       “THAT Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain who has served the Board
       as an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of ten
       (10) years since 30 June 2014 be and is hereby retained as an Independent
       Director of the Company.”

11. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
       given.

By Order of the Board of Directors

CHUA SIEW CHUAN (MAICSA 0777689/ SSM PC NO.: 201908002648)
YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
Company Secretaries

Dated: 31 October 2023

Explanatory Notes to Special Business:

1. Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016

       The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Eighth AGM of the
       Company held on 29 November 2022 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.

       The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot
       shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion
       without convening a general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not
       exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being
       (hereinafter referred to as the “10% General Mandate”).

       The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities,
       including but not limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment
       projects, working capital and/or acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons
       at any time as the Directors may deem fit, without incurring any further cost to convene a separate
       general meeting to approve such authority. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a
       general meeting will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

       Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of
       the Company, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which
       rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company or other securities.

       The proposed Resolution 7, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under
       the authority to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer new shares to
       be issued equally to all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.
          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

6
          Annual Report 2023

    NOTICE OF
    ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

     (Cont’d)

     2.	Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
             Revenue or Trading Nature

             The proposed Resolution 8 will enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any
             of the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the
             Group’s day-to-day operations, subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and
             on normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to the Related Parties than those generally
             available to the public and are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company.

             Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023 for more information.

     3.	Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares

             The proposed Resolution 9 is intended to allow the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per
             centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company at any time within the time period
             stipulated in Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.

             Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023 for more information.

     4. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director

             Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain (“Tan Sri Ibrahim”) was appointed as an Independent Director
             of the Company on 30 June 2014. Tan Sri Ibrahim has served the Board for a cumulative period of more
             than 9 years in this capacity and by the following AGM of the Company in 2024, Tan Sri Ibrahim would
             have served the Board for a cumulative period of 10.5 years in this capacity. The Board of Directors
             of the Company through the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, after having assessed the
             independence of Tan Sri Ibrahim, regards him to be independent based amongst others, the following
             justifications, and recommends that Tan Sri Ibrahim be retained as an Independent Director of the
             Company subject to the approval from the shareholders of the Company as described in the Guidance
             to Practice 5.3 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance:-

             (a) Tan Sri Ibrahim has fulfilled the definition of an independent director as set out under Paragraph
                    1.01 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“the Exchange”) Main Market Listing Requirements

                    • has not been within the last 3 years, an officer of the Company or any related corporation
                            of the Company (each corporation is referred to as “said Corporation”) [“officer” has the
                            meaning given in Section 2 of the Companies Act 2016 but excludes a director who has served
                            as an independent director in any one or more of the said Corporations for a cumulative
                            period of less than 12 years];

                    • is not a major shareholder of the said Corporation;
                    • is not a family member of any executive director, officer or major shareholder of the said

                            Corporation;
                    • is not acting as a nominee or representative of any executive director or major shareholder of

                            the said Corporation;
                    • has not been engaged as an adviser by the said Corporation under such circumstances as

                            prescribed by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director (except as an Independent
                            Director) or major shareholder, as the case may be, of firm or corporation which provides
                            professional advisory services to the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed
                            by the Exchange;
                    • has not engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as
                            prescribed by the Exchange or is not presently a partner, director or major shareholder, as
                            the case may be, of a firm or corporation (other than subsidiaries of the Company) which has
                            engaged in any transaction with the said Corporation under such circumstances as prescribed
                            by the Exchange; or
                    • has not served as an independent director in any one of more of the said Corporations
                            for a cumulative period of more than 12 years from the date of his first appointment as an
                            independent director.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                       7

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                        NOTICE OF
                                                                            ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

       (b) Tan Sri Ibrahim has not been involved in any business or other relationship which could hinder
               the exercise of independent judgement, objectivity or his ability to act in the best interests of the
               Company;

       (c) Tan Sri Ibrahim has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including in any competing
               business with the Group;

       (d) Tan Sri Ibrahim has not established or maintained any significant personal or social relationship,
               whether direct or indirect, with the Group Managing Director, major shareholders or management
               of the Company (including their family members) other than normal engagements and interactions
               on a professional level consistent with his duties and expected of him to carry out his duties as an
               independent director; and

       (e) Tan Sri Ibrahim does not derive any remuneration and other benefits apart from Director’s fees and
               benefits that are approved by shareholders.

Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Ninth AGM (“Meeting”):

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
       17 November 2023 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
       proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
       the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to
       the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall
       have the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting.

3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
       authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
       common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
       Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
       under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
       which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it
       is signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of
       the Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
       Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
       forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The
       lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting
       in person at the 29th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination
       of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the
       commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.

6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
       require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
       Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward
       for voting.
          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

8
          Annual Report 2023

  CORPORATE
  INFORMATION

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  Darmendran Kunaretnam            Tai Keat Chai
Mohd Zain                       Non-Independent Executive        Independent Non-Executive
Chairman, Independent Non-      Director, Group Managing         Director
Executive Director              Director
                                                                 Adnan bin Ahmad
BOARD OF                        Chee Cheng Chun                  Independent Non-Executive
                                Non-Independent Non-Executive    Director
                                Director
                                                                 Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
DIRECTORS                                                        Non-Independent Executive
                                                                 Director

                                                                 Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa
                                                                 Non-Independent Executive
                                                                 Director

AUDIT AND RISK                  AUDITORS                             SOLICITORS
MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE                       Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates    Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona
                                PLT
Tai Keat Chai                   (LLP0000963-LCA & AF002096)          REGISTERED OFFICE
Chairman                        Chartered Accountants
                                Unit 3-3A, 3rd Floor, Surian Tower,  Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3,                Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat,
Mohd Zain                       Mutiara Damansara,                   Seberang Perai Tengah,
Member                          47810 Petaling Jaya,                 Penang, Malaysia
                                Selangor Darul Ehsan                 Telephone No. : +604-508 8288
Adnan bin Ahmad                 Telephone No. : +603-7728 1800       Facsimile No. : +604-508 8566
Member                          Facsimile No. : +603-7728 9800       Email Address : support@
                                                                     		 rexmalaysia.com
NOMINATION and                  SHARE REGISTRAR
REMUNERATION                                                         STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
COMMITTEE                       Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn.
                                Bhd.                                 Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin  [197701005827 (36869-T)]             Malaysia Securities Berhad
Mohd Zain                       Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Chairman                        Jalan Damanlela,                     Stock Code : 9946
                                Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Tai Keat Chai                   Damansara Heights,                   Stock Name : REX
Member                          50490 Kuala Lumpur,
                                Wilayah Persekutuan                  Sector      : Consumer
COMPANY SECRETARIES             Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
                                Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940 /     		 Products &
Chua Siew Chuan                 		 +603-2095 0292
(MAICSA 0777689)                Email Address : info@sshsb.com.my    		 Services
SSM PC No.: 201908002648
                                PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Yeow Sze Min
(MAICSA 7065735)                Ambank Islamic Berhad
SSM PC No.: 201908003120
                                CIMB Bank Berhad

                                Hong Leong Bank Berhad

                                United Overseas Bank (M) Berhad
                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                               9

                                      Annual Report 2023

                             PROFILE OF
                             DIRECTORS

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd           Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain was appointed to the Board
 Ibrahim bin Mohd            of the Company on 30 June 2014. He is the Chairman of the Board,
                             Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit
            Zain             and Risk Management Committee of the Company.

 Independent Non-Executive   Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim is a graduate from the British Institute of
        Director, Chairman   Management and Institute of Marketing, United Kingdom, and holds a
                             Masters in Business Administration from the University of Ohio in the
 Aged 80 l Malaysian l Male  United States of America.

                                                       Upon Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim’s graduation in 1965, he joined University
                                                       Technology MARA (formerly known as Institute of Technology MARA)
as a lecturer and headed its school of business and then became its dean of academic. He was subsequently
appointed as a Council Member/Director, a position which he held until October 2006.

Previously, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had served as Chief Executive Officer of Amanah International Finance
Berhad, Amanah Chase Merchant Bank Berhad and Oriental Bank Berhad, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Setron (Malaysia) Berhad, Chairman of Bank Kerjasama Rakyat (M) Berhad, Bescorp Industries
Berhad, Pan Malaysia Industries Berhad, Pan Malaysian Holdings Berhad, Pan Malaysia Capital Berhad,
Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad and Kawan Food Berhad, Deputy Chairman of Metrojaya Berhad
and Director of K & N Kenanga Holdings Berhad, Brahim’s Holdings Berhad, and AMMB Holdings Berhad and
Censof Holdings Berhad.

Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed
issuer.

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the
Group and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing
business with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not
been any public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year ended 30 June 2023.

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim had attended four (4) out of five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year
ended 30 June 2023.
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

10
           Annual Report 2023

    PROFILE OF
    DIRECTORS

     (Cont’d)

    Darmendran                  Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam was appointed to the Board of the Company
       Kunaretnam               and as the Group Managing Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does
                                not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
Non-Independent Executive
 Director, Group Managing       Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia with
              Director          a Business Degree majoring in Accounting. He is also a member of the
                                Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified
Aged 62 l Malaysian l Male      Public Accountants. He spent ten (10) years as Group Manager in the
                                Audit Division of an international public accounting firm from 1985 to
                                1995.

                                                       Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering & Construction
Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the General Manager of the Finance and Corporate Planning Division in 1996
and successfully listed Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. He went on to
restructure and list Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in
June 1997. He was later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August 1997. In year 2007, he, together with
his partner, took Safeguards private.

Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur
Berhad (“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a Non-
Executive Director on 26 February 2009. He was redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August 2009 and
continues to hold this position till present. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in other public
companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27 December 2016.

Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.

Mr. Darmendran had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

   Chee Cheng Chun              Mr. Chee Cheng Chun was appointed to the Board of the Company on
                                3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees
Non-Independent Non-Executive   of the Company.
                  Director
                                Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London with a Master
    Aged 38 l Malaysian l Male  of Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering. He worked as Business
                                Development Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad (“KSTB”)
                                before he was appointed to the Board of KSTB. Currently, the only
                                directorship of Mr. Chee in other public companies is KSTB, which was
                                delisted on 27 December 2016.

                                                       Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Group and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in
any competing business with the Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years
and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

Mr. Chee had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
                             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                         11

                              Annual Report 2023

                                 PROFILE OF
                                  DIRECTORS

                                           (Cont’d)

    Tai Keat Chai            Mr. Tai Keat Chai was appointed to the Board of the Company on 6 March
                             2015. He is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
Independent Non-Executive    and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the
              Director       Company.

Aged 69 l Malaysian l Male   Mr. Tai is a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Malaysian
                             Institute of Accountants. He began his career with KPMG in London
                             and moved on subsequently to PWC in Kuala Lumpur. In 1981, he joined
                             Alliance Investment Bank Berhad for seven (7) years before venturing
                             into stock-broking, working with SJ Securities Sdn. Bhd., AA Anthony
                             Securities Sdn. Bhd. and Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as General
                             Manager, Director and dealer’s representative respectively.

Currently, Mr. Tai’s directorships in other public companies and listed issuers include Marine & General Berhad,
Microlink Solutions Berhad, HSS Engineers Berhad and Talam Transform Berhad.

Mr. Tai has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the Group. He
had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public sanctions
or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

Mr. Tai had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

Adnan Bin Ahmad              Encik Adnan bin Ahmad was appointed to the Board of the Company
                             on 12 April 2018. He is a member of the Audit and Risk Management
Independent Non-Executive    Committee of the Company.
              Director
                             Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial Relations. He started
 Aged 75 l Malaysian l Male  his career with Messrs. Hanafiah, Raslan & Mohamad in 1967. He then
                             joined Safeguards G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including
                             Head of Human Resource & Administration and Head of Administration
                             and Regulatory and Premises. He was also the Chairman of Koperasi
                             Pelaburan Pekerja-Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement
                             on 31 March 2014.

Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
December 2016.

Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.

Encik Adnan had attended all five (5) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

12
           Annual Report 2023

    PROFILE OF
    DIRECTORS

     (Cont’d)

           Dato’                  Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim was appointed to the Board of the Company
                                  on 11 October 2022. He also acts as the Chief Executive Officer of Rex
 Cheah Teng Lim                   Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the
                                  Company. Currently, he does not sit in any of the Board Committees of
Non-Independent Executive         the Company.
              Director

Aged 63 l Malaysian l Male        Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in Management Programme.
                                  He has more than thirty (30) years of experience in the fast-moving

                                  consumer goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and marketing

                                  and business re-engineering. Prior to joining the Group, he had various

                                  senior sales and marketing positions in companies such as Rothmans

                                  of Pall Mall Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad and

Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then went to head the sustainable development division at IRIS

Corporation Berhad for five (5) years. He joined the Group in October 2017 as the Marketing Director prior to

assuming his current role as Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.,

the subsidiaries of the Company.

Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed issuer.

Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. He had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June
2023.

Dato’ Cheah, had attended all three (3) Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023 from
his date of appointment as a Director of the Company.

    Madam CHRIS                   Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, was appointed to the Board of the Company
                                  on 22 May 2023. She is the Company’s General Manager of Procurement,
    Kong Wai Fa                   Logistic and Warehouse, overseeing the overall supply chain operations,
                                  including inventory management and logistics planning. Currently, she
Non-Independent Executive         does not sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.
              Director

Aged 59 l Malaysian l Female      Madam Chris graduated with a LCCI Diploma. She started her career
                                  in the Finance Department of Safeguards Oceanic Freightways Sdn.

                                  Bhd. in 1982, working her way up to the operations, sales and eventually

                                  becoming the Chief Executive Officer of a logistics business company

                                  involved in land, sea and air transport, forwarding and warehousing,

                                  Safeguards Oceanic. Madam Chris has over forty (40) years of

experience in the logistics industry, and has various expertise in financial management, human resources,

operations and sales.

Currently, Madam Chris does not hold any directorship in other public listed companies or listed issuer.

Madam Chris has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Group. She had not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years and there has not been any public
sanctions or penalties imposed on her by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
June 2023.

As there was no Board Meeting held from her date of appointment as a Director of the Company up until 30
June 2023, Madam Chris did not attend any Board Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
                                                                                                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                      13

                                                                                                                    Annual Report 2023

                                                                     PROFILE OF
                                             KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT

                             Mr. Chia Hup Tong was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the

Chia Hup Tong                Company on 23 September 2021.

Chief Financial Officer of   Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of
   Rex Industry Berhad       Accountants. He started his career in the audit industry, where he gained

Aged 46 l Malaysian l Male   audit and accounting experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan Samudra
                             Timur Berhad, a company providing services to the oil & gas industry

                             in 2006 as Accountant responsible for overall finance and corporate

                             functions. Prior to joining the Group, he was a Group Accountant of

                             Safeguards Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charged of the overall

                             group finance, accounts and compliance for six (6) years. He joined the

                             Company on 1 May 2021 as Finance Manager of P.T. Rex Canning before

he was promoted as Chief Financial Officer.

Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.

Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no
conflict of interest with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

  Chu Seang Ming             Mr. Chu Seang Ming was appointed as the General Manager of P.T. Rex
                             Canning, a subsidiary of the Company, on 1 May 1998.
General Manager of P.T. Rex
      Canning, Indonesia     Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration, Marketing from
                             Washington International University and various certifications, which
Aged 57 l Malaysian l Male   include Indonesia Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994),
                             FDA/USDA Better Process Control School, Indonesia (1995), NOAA
                             – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000) and HACCP Program SGS,
                             Indonesia (2000).

                                                       Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food manufacturer based in
                                                       Perak as a Factory Quality Controller where he undertook laboratory
quality control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary
of the Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as
its Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu was tasked with establishing and setting up a new
processing plant and operations for the Rex Group in People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General
Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods Ltd. Co, before he returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of the
general management of P.T. Rex Canning.

Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public companies or listed issuers.

Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest with the Group. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than traffic
offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

14
           Annual Report 2023

    PROFILE OF
    KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT

     (Cont’d)

    Ng Sioh Ching             Ms. Ng Sioh Ching was appointed as the Senior Plant Manager of Rex
                              Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., as subsidiary of the company on 1 July 2021.
Senior Plant Manager of Rex
     Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.    Ms. Ng graduated with a Degree in Food Science. She started her
                              career as quality controller in Rex Canning in 2000. She has 10 years’
Aged 48 l Malaysian l Female  experience in quality control for canned food processing. She then
                              undertook operations task and canned food, beverage and confectionery
                              processing before she was promoted as Senior Plant Manager.

                              Ms. Ng does not hold any directorship in other public companies or
                              listed issuers.

Ms. Ng has no family relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
of interest with the Group. She has not been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other than
traffic offences, if any and there has not been any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      15

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                           OVERVIEW STATEMENT

The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the “Company” or “REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the
importance of practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its
stakeholders, and to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”).

The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to
provide an overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set
out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3)
key principles, under the stewardship of the Board:-

a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.

This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG
Report of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”) published on the Company’s
website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

         Intended Outcome 1.0

         Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership
         and is collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.

       1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group
               Managing Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group
               with the support of a senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the
               operations, issues faced and action plans of the Group in order for the Board to be kept abreast
               on the conduct, business activities and development of the Company and to discuss and advise
               the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term and long-term business strategies.
               Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the objectives to be met and
               how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are efficiently
               and effectively utilized. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s
               values and standards.

               To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties
               and responsibilities to two (2) other Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
               Committee (“ARMC”) and Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”). The Board
               Committees assist the Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within
               their respective functions and terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties
               and powers as approved by the Board. The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the
               Board on the key issues, outcomes and resolutions deliberated at each of the Board Committees’
               meetings.

               To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the
               Company during the FYE 2023, the Board had, amongst others:-

               (a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and
                      professional behaviour;

               (b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and
                      monitored their implementation by the Management;
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

16
           Annual Report 2023

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     (Cont’d)

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

      I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

             1.1 (Cont’d)

                     (c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes
                             strategies on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;

                     (d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is
                             being properly managed;

                     (e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
                     (f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to

                             ensure that the risks are properly managed;
                     (g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key

                             positions;
                     (h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with

                             stakeholders; and
                     (i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.

             1.2 The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive
                     Director (“INED”), who provides effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of
                     the Group and to monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.

                     Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain had:-

                     (a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility
                             for the Board decisions;

                     (b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged
                             constructive discussions and effective contribution from each Director;

                     (c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the
                             Board’s deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;

                     (d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance
                             practices within the Group;

                     (e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely
                             expressed;

                     (f) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders
                             and that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and
                             improvement, if any;

                     (g) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth
                             communication flow between both parties; and

                     (h) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability
                             and in any marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.

             1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with
                     clear accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to
                     ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of
                     decision making.

                     The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight
                     of Management as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has
                     overall responsibilities over the business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and
                     implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in
                     the Company’s Board Charter.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      17

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the NRC and a member of the ARMC.

               The Board takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered
               its Committees’ composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate
               governance requirements, recommendations, and best practices, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim will
               continue to be part of the Board Committees. The Board is convinced that the presence of the
               other members in the Board Committees would still create a good balance for open and free
               discussions.

       1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries,
               namely Ms. Chua Siew Chuan and Ms. Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per
               Section 235(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association
               of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).

               The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings)
               Sdn. Bhd. with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice. They are supported by
               a dedicated team of secretarial personnel.

               During the FYE 2023, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities
               accordingly. They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law,
               the capital market, CG, and other pertinent matters, as well as with changes in the regulatory
               environment through continuous training and industry updates.

               The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to
               the Board in discharging their functions and duties.

       1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members
               to reserve their dates for the meetings. During the FYE 2023, the Management together with the
               assistance of the Company Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least
               five (5) business days in advance in accordance with the Company’s Constitution.

               Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and
               accurate record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the
               Company Secretaries to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their
               review and for them to seek for clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next
               Board or Board Committee meeting.

               Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the
               Board or Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office
               of the Company to be made available for inspection.

               The Management takes cognizance of the importance of providing complete and adequate
               information to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to
               discharge their duties and responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete
               meeting materials are circulated at least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand
               or email.
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

18
           Annual Report 2023

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     (Cont’d)

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

      I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

               Intended Outcome 2.0

               There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.

               There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.

             2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 18 October
                     2018 and includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details
                     the responsibilities of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management
                     limitations, as well as an outline on what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles
                     and responsibilities as Board Members. With this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities
                     of the Directors and the Management are clearly set out in the Board Charter as guidance and
                     clarity to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.

                     The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.
                     com.

                     The TOR of the ARMC has been reviewed in line with the recent amendments made to the MainLR
                     in relation to the conflict of interest (“COI”) and was approved by the Board on 1 July 2023 for
                     adoption.

                     The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and
                     matters deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee
                     meetings and reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the
                     Board during Board meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.

                     The Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.

                     Activities of the NRC

                     On 15 August 2023, the NC had merged with RC and to be known as Nomination and Remuneration
                     Committee (“NRC”). The rationale for the merger of the two Board Committees is to enhance the
                     efficiency of the Board Committees in discharging its duties and responsibilities.

                     During the FYE 2023, the NRC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-

                     (i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NRC meetings held;
                     (ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character,

                             experience, integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through
                             a comprehensive assessment system;
                     (iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board
                             Committees;
                     (iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
                     (v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
                     (vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring
                             independent and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
                     (vii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual
                             General Meeting (“AGM”); and
                     (viii) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.

                     During the FYE 2023, the Board had convened a total of five (5) Board meetings for the purposes
                     of deliberating on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and
                     important matters. During the Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance
                     of the Group and other strategic issues that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior
                     management members were invited to attend some of the Board meetings to provide the Board
                     with their views and clarifications on issues raised by the Directors.
                                                                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                          19

                                                                                            Annual Report 2023

                                                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                               OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                              (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       The NRC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee
       meetings. Upon review, the NRC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient
       time and effort to attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2023.

Directors                   Directorship  Board           ARMC       NC        RC
                                           4/5              4/5      2/2      2/2
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim  INED            5/5
bin Mohd Zain                               5/5             5/5      2/2      2/2
                                            5/5             5/5     Not a    Not a
Tai Keat Chai               INED            5/5                   member   member
                                            4/4            Not a    Not a    Not a
Adnan bin Ahmad             INED                         member   member   member
                                            2/2                     Not a    Not a
Darmendran Kunaretnam       Non-IED                        Not a  member   member
                                                         member     Not a    Not a
Chee Cheng Chun             Non-INED                              member   member
                                                           Not a
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim        Non-IED                      member     Not a    Not a
(Appointed to the Board     Non-IED                               member   member
on 11 October 2022)                                        Not a
                                                         member
Kajendra Pathmanathan
(Appointed to the Board
on 11 October 2022)
(Resigned from the Board
on 20 January 2023)

In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance
their skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.

The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-

• All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed
       by the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;

• All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their
       knowledge on the latest regulatory and business environment; and

• The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.

Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education
would be the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills
and knowledge to meet the challenges ahead.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

20
            Annual Report 2023

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

      (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       Up to the date of this report, the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or
       courses:-

Name of Directors               Dates                                 Description of
Tai Keat Chai         19 September 2023                          Training Programmes

Darmendran                 10 July 2023     Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
Kunaretnam                                                       Market Listed Issuers
Chee Cheng Chun
                                                         Security Operation Compliance
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
                           17 August 2023   Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
Kong Wai Fa            9 & 10 October 2023                       Market Listed Issuers
                      24 & 25 October 2023
                                                   Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
                                                               Programme (MAP) 2023

                                                   Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
                                                               Programme (MAP) 2023

 Intended Outcome 3.0

 The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate
 culture that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.

 The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered
 acceptable behaviour and practice in the Company.

3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-

• Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and individual
       behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and corporate behavior; and

• Code of Ethics, which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
       based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.

Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.

The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

3.2 The Board had on 18 October 2018 adopted a whistleblowing policy to facilitate the Company’s
       employees and stakeholders to report instances of misconduct, wrong-doing, corruption, fraud,
       waste of the Company’s resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without
       fear of retaliation.

       Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should
       be made in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are
       substantially true and the report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will
       be viewed seriously and if proven may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      21

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       During the FYE 2023, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
       abovementioned communication and feedback channels.

       The Board had also adopted an ABC Policy to ensure the Company’s daily operations and businesses do
       not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or benefit.

       The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and
       corruption pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the
       2018 amendment to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.

       The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

         Intended Outcome 4.0

         The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic manner
         to support its long-term strategy and success.

       4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term
               value.

               The Company, had established Sustainable Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing
               governance structure in relation to sustainability.

               The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the
               leadership of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments
               within the Group. Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies,
               with the Group MD, who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of
               sustainability strategies set by the Board.

               The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
               upcoming financial years as follows:-

               • To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.

               • To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather
                      inputs from all relevant departments/functions.

               • To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their: -

                      • Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and

                      • Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

               • To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.

               • With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow
                      the Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence
                      to the sustainability practices and policies.

               All sustainability-related activities undertaken to set out by the Company have been disclosed in
               the Sustainability Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

22
            Annual Report 2023

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     (Cont’d)

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

      I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

              4.2 The Company acknowledges the importance of communicating the company’s sustainability
                     strategies, priorities, and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.

                     The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s
                     sustainability strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures
                     include a comprehensive description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and
                     efforts. The complete information of the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from
                     the Group’s annual report and is accessible from the corporate website at http://www.rexmalaysia.
                     com/

              4.3 The Board will take part in several initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the
                     Group and the industry. The Board will take the necessary steps to undertake professional training,
                     programmes and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will include
                     climate-related risks and opportunities.

              4.4 The NRC continues to conduct the Board Performance Evaluation annually focussing on the
                     competency, contribution and performance, as well as calibre and personality. The Board recognises
                     the importance in addressing the company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities. The
                     Board will implement this in time to support sustainability measures.

      II. BOARD COMPOSITION

               Intended Outcome 5.0

               Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account
               diverse perspectives and insights.

              5.1 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s
                     structure, size, and composition regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with
                     regard to changes that are deemed necessary. Upon recommending to the Board, NRC will consider
                     the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity, time commitment, and diversity, where
                     appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.

                     During the FYE 2023, in compliance with the Paragraph 15.02 of the MainLR, the NRC had identified
                     and assessed a suitable candidate for the appointment of female director. Prior to the appointment,
                     the NRC had conducted the director’s fit and proper assessment and on 22 May 2023, Madam Kong
                     Wai Fa had been appointed as the female director of the Company.

                     The NRC also had assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
                     committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.

                     The NRC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on
                     competency, preparedness, and contributions. The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy had been
                     adopted by the Board on 27 May 2022.

              5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
                     and three (3) Non-Independent Executive Directors.

                     The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to
                     facilitate a balanced leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance
                     to safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      23

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

       5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set
               out in the Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director
               may continue to serve on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify
               and obtain shareholders’ approval for his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on
               the Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.

               At the last Twenty-Eighth (28th) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company, the Company
               sought and obtained approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
               Bin Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014.

       		The Company will again seek approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’
               Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.

       5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9)
               years, being a step-up practice.

       5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order
               to offer greater depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior
               management level.

       		
       		The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of

               senior management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven
               by any age, cultural background or gender considerations.

       		At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of males and females who are
               equipped with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business direction of the
               Group.

       5.6 The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates
               when the need arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board
               members, Management, and/or major shareholders.

       5.7 The NRC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before
               tabling at the General Meeting for voting. The information on the appointment and reappointment
               of directors will be shared with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.

       5.8 The NRC is chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, who had led the
               annual review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that the performance of
               each individual Director is independently assessed.

       5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy,
               the Board practises non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity
               and supports the representation of women in the composition of Board and Senior Management
               positions of the Company.

       		Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration
               when vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary
               aim of selecting the best candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic
               objectives.

               Currently, the Board consists of one (1) female director who was appointed on 22 May 2023. In this
               regard, the Board’s gender diversity stands at nearly half of 30% as required by the MCCG.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

24
            Annual Report 2023

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

     (Cont’d)

     PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

      II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

              5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned
                     with the Company’s objectives:-

                     i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior
                             management will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are
                             identified.

                     ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members.
                             In view that the existing Board comprises individuals who have distinguished themselves in
                             their respective fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives
                             during board deliberation and decision-making process.

                     The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome.
                     Nonetheless, the Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.

               Intended Outcome 6.0

               Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual
               Directors.

              6.1 During the FYE 2023, the Board, through the NRC, had conducted the following annual assessments
                     to determine the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in
                     the financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FYE 2022”):-

                     (i) Directors’ self-assessment;
                     (ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
                     (iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
                     (iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
                     (v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.

                     Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for the FYE 2022, the NRC was satisfied with the
                     performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.

      III. REMUNERATION

               Intended Outcome 7.0

               The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account
               the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
               drive the Company’s long-term objectives.

               Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.

              7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be
                     referred by the NRC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group
                     MD, Non-Executive Directors and other senior management personnel.

              7.2 Currently, the NRC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and
                     is presently chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. The NRC is governed by its TOR
                     which outlines its remit, duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on is 31 July
                     2023
                                                                                         REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                         25

                                                                                           Annual Report 2023

                                                        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                              OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                             (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)

         Intended Outcome 8.0

         Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management
         is commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s
         performance.

8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2023 in the Company
       and Group levels respectively, is as follows:-

       i) Company Level

                          Salaries      Directors’      Statutory Benefits- Bonus and
                        and other              Fees
                    emoluments                 (RM)     Contribution in-kind allowances

Name of                        (RM)                  –  (RM)  (RM)  (RM)
Director                                             –
                                     –               –  –     –     –
Executive Director
                                     –     48,600       –     –     –
Darmendran
Kunaretnam                           –               –  –     –     –
                                           36,000
Dato’ Cheah
Teng Lim                                             –
                                           84,600
Total

Non-Executive Director

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd      –                               –     –     2,000

Ibrahim

bin Mohd Zain

Tai Keat Chai           –                               –     –     –

Adnan bin Ahmad         –                               –     –     2,500

Chee Cheng Chun         –                               –     –     –

Total                   –                               –     –     4,500
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

26
            Annual Report 2023

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

      (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)

       8.1 (Cont’d)
               ii) Group Level

                                       Salaries   Directors’      Statutory Benefits- Bonus and
                                     and other           Fees
                                 emoluments              (RM)     Contribution in-kind allowances

Name of                                     (RM)               –  (RM)       (RM)  (RM)
Director
                                       865,620                 –   52,127    –     182,715
Executive Director                                                 21,419
                                       180,000       48,600       73,546     –     –
Darmendran
Kunaretnam                          1,045,620        96,000               –  –     182,715
                                                     36,000
Dato’ Cheah                                          36,000               –
Teng Lim                                            216,600               –
                                                                          –
Total                                                                     –

Non-Executive Director

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd               –                                           –     2,000

Ibrahim

bin Mohd Zain

Tai Keat Chai                    –                                           –     2,500

Adnan bin Ahmad                  –                                           –     2,500

Chee Cheng Chun                  –                                           –     2,500

Total                            –                                           –     9,500

8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior management
       staff on a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000, for the best interest of the Group taking
       into consideration the competitive human resource environment which may give rise to poaching
       issues, as well as to maintain the privacy of senior management staff.

8.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not be
       disclosed for confidentiality purposes.

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE

         Intended Outcome 9.0
         There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.
         The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The
         Company’s financial statements are a reliable source of information.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      27

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)

       9.1 During the FYE 2023, the ARMC is chaired by Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is an INED, while the Chairman
               of the Board is Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain, also an INED. This ensures that the
               objectivity of the Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.

       9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may
               arise when a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit and
               preparation of the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies and
               Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require a
               former key audit partner of the Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year
               cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the ARMC.

               During the FYE 2023, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order
               to uphold the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key
               audit partner as a member of the ARMC or Board.

       9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and
               Independence of External Auditors’ that sets out the criteria to be taken into account by the ARMC
               in assessing the suitability, objectivity and independence of external auditors annually.

               In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the ARMC has
               considered the following:-

               (a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in
                      relation to the audit;

               (b) Persons assigned to the audit;
               (c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
               (d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a

                      timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
               (e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of

                      fees; and
               (f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been,

                      independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms
                      of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.

               The ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT is suitable, objective
               and independent to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board has in
               turn recommended the same for shareholders’ approval at the twenty-ninth (“29th”) AGM of the
               Company.

       9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors.

       9.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient
               understanding of the Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the
               financial reporting process.

               The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and
               fair view of the Company’s financial position and performance.

               All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous
               professional development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and
               auditing standards, practices and rules as and when required.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

28
            Annual Report 2023

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

      (Cont’d)

      PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

      II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

               Intended Outcome 10.0

               Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement
               necessary controls to pursue their objectives.

               The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable
               future event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.

              10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify,
                     assess and monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
                     assets by monitoring the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external
                     auditors and the outsourced internal auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of
                     the internal control processes and procedures periodically to ensure that the system is viable and
                     robust.

                     With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk
                     management and internal control.

              10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised
                     the results of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment
                     process of the Group.

               Intended Outcome 11.0

               Companies have an effective governance; risk management and internal control framework and
               stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.

              11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely
                     Finfield Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with
                     a reasonable assurance of adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit
                     function.

                     The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of
                     the Company’s compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further
                     improvement.

                     During the FYE 2023, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions,
                     competency and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for the FYE 2023 and that they have
                     the necessary authority to carry out their work.

                     The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of
                     the Company and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is
                     satisfactory and operating effectively.

              11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and
                     the internal audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest,
                     which could impair their objectivity and independence.

                     The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or a
                     university degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The
                     Engagement Partner, Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk
                     management and corporate governance advisory.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      29

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS

I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS

         Intended Outcome 12.0

         There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
         understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.

         Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its
         policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.

       12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication
               to the investing public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group
               are accurate, timely, factual, informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary,
               information filed with regulators is in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

               The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated
               spokespersons will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate
               flow of information disclosure to the stakeholders.

               The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its
               stakeholders through a variety of communication channels as follows:-

               (a) Announcements to Bursa Securities

                      Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis
                      through announcements to Bursa Securities.

                      Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly
                      financial results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via
                      the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

               (b) Annual reports

                      The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating
                      to the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance
                      for the past financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and
                      regulations.

               (c) AGM/general meetings

                      The AGM/general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise
                      any issues pertaining to the Company.

               (d) Corporate website

                      The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company
                      and is accessible by the public.

               (e) Investor relations

                      Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they
                      have any comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the
                      Company’s general email address.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

30
            Annual Report 2023

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

      (Cont’d)

      PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
      WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

      I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS (Cont’d)

              12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated
                     reporting based on a globally recognised framework.

      II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS

               Intended Outcome 13.0

               Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and
               make informed voting decisions at general meetings.

              13.1 The Board together with the management committed to ensuring that the despatch of the notice
                     of every AGM of the Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date
                     of the meeting. For the 28th AGM, the company managed to circulate the notice of the AGM at
                     least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of the meeting.

                     The Board is aware that sufficient notice and time given would allow the shareholders to arrange
                     their time to participate in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their
                     proxies and corporate representatives for the AGM.

                     The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable
                     shareholders to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.

              13.2 During the 28th AGM of the Company held on 29 November 2022, one (1) out of seven (7) directors
                     was not able to attend to the AGM due to personal reasons. The other directors together with the
                     Chief Financial Controller, Company Secretary and External Auditors participated in the 28th AGM
                     to provide meaningful responses to questions raised by the shareholders.

              13.3 The AGM held on 29 November 2022 was conducted physically to encourage face-to-face
                     discussions with shareholders and stakeholders.

              13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform of interaction between the Board,
                     Senior Management, and the shareholders of the Company. The Board ensures that shareholders
                     are given the opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.

                     At every general meeting of the Company, the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer,
                     external auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide
                     greater responses to all shareholders’ queries.

                     The Chairman also has committedly ensured that all questions raised during general meetings
                     would be getting responses either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The
                     responses would be published on the corporate website after the general meetings.

              13.5 The 28th AGM was conducted physically which allowed shareholders and stakeholders to efficiently
                     exercise their rights to vote.

              13.6 The Minutes of the 28th AGM held on 29 November 2022 were made available to the shareholders
                     within thirty (30) business days after the AGM.

              The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly
              approved at the Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 24 October 2023.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      31

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                      SUSTAINABILITY
                                                             STATEMENT

INTRODUCTION

As an organisation, we recognise that businesses play a vital role in driving effective sustainable change and
the Board of Directors (“Board”) is pleased to present the Sustainability Statement for the financial year
ended 30 June 2023 (“the Statement”), which has been prepared in accordance with Practice Note 9 of
the Main Market Listing Requirements and the Sustainability Reporting Guide and Toolkits, issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.

This Statement aims to provide meaningful information to the stakeholders on the journey we are undertaking
to embrace sustainability as part of the business and integrating the same into the daily business activities.

This Statement was prepared on a best effort basis, and we are committed to further it, specifically on the
material sustainability issues, in order to narrow any gaps we might have in our reporting. As a result, we are
also laying out the action plan to do so in this Statement.

SCOPE

This Statement covers Rex Industry Berhad and four (4) of its subsidiaries located in Malaysia, i.e.:-
• Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd
• Rex Trading Sdn Bhd
• Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd
• Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd

And, collectively referred to as the “Group”.

Information disclosed in this Statement comprises activities relating to: -
• Manufacturing of canned food, drinks, chocolate malt products and coconut milk.
• Trading / sales of canned food, drinks, chocolate malt products and coconut milk.

Collectively, the above contributed to approximately 42% of the Group’s total revenue and our reporting
period is from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023, unless otherwise stated.

GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS

Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure
in relation to sustainability. The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”), is
chaired by our Group Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department i.e.:-
• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics

The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership
of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group. The
Board is ultimately accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director,
who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the
Board.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

32
            Annual Report 2023
    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT
     (Cont’d)

     GOVERNANCE, STRUCTURE AND PROCESS (CONT’D)
      The sustainability governance structure is illustrated as below:-

Board of Board of    Audit and Risk                                      Sustainability
Directors Directors  Management                                          Working Group
                     Committee
                                                                         Head of Departments:-
                                                                         • Finance
                                                                         • Sales and Marketing
                                                                         • Procurement
                                                                         • Manufacturing
                                                                         • Warehouse and Logistics

SUSTAINABILTY STRATEGY

We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business.
As part of our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars to ensure that,
while running the business effectively, we are also committed to contribute to the larger community. The 4
Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below:-

                     Environment

Suppliers                                                                Community

                     Employees
                                                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                               33

                                                                                      Annual Report 2023

                                                                                 SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                        STATEMENT

                                                                                                 (Cont’d)

STAKEHOLDERS’ ENGAGEMENT

We have identified and prioritised the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these
stakeholders over the Group, and at the same time, the channels of engagement and the engagement matters
with the respective stakeholders, as illustrated below:-

Stakeholders  Engagement Platforms                                  Engagement Matters

Shareholders  • Annual General Meeting                              • Dividend
              • Financial statements                                • Return on investment
              • Press releases/announcements                        • Financial performance
                                                                    • Share performance

Board of Directors •            Board meetings                      • Corporate Governance
                             •  Annual General Meeting              • Company business strategy
                             •  Company organised events

Employees     • Orientation training                                • Occupational safety & health

              • Learning                    and  development • Human resource management

                                programmes                          • Fair employment practices

              • Employee performance appraisal                      • Career development opportunities

              • Corporate organised events

Government /  • Ongoing interactions                                • Manufacturing issues and policies
Regulators    • Formal and informal meetings                        • Foods safety issues and policies
                                                                    • Effluent & waste management
                                                                    • Water & energy management
                                                                    • Compliance to applicable laws
                                                                    • Economic, environmental and social

                                                                           impacts

Customers     • Face-to-face interaction                            • Manufacturing quality
              • Feedback survey                                     • Manufacturing capacity
                                                                    • Research & Development

Suppliers     • Interviews                                          • Agreeable contracts
              • Evaluations/Re-evaluations                          • Terms of payments
              • Face-to-face interaction                            • Maintaining partnerships

Local         • Corporate volunteering programmes • Support towards community
communities
                                (e.g. community events, knowledge-  development

                                sharing initiatives & partnerships with • Job creation for local communities

                                non-governmental organisations)     • Undertaking business in a responsible

                                                                    manner
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

34
            Annual Report 2023

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

     (Cont’d)

     MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS

      We are still in the process of learning and understanding what the Group would prioritise in terms of material
      sustainability matters, as sustainability involves a very wide and general area in which the Group can play a
      role.

      A list of material sustainability matters has been identified by the Board, however their priority level has not
      been finalised for the current financial year as further assessment and studies are required to be carried out.

      The Group has established the following action plan to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
      coming financial years:-

      a) To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.

      b) To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather inputs
              from all relevant departments/functions.

      c) To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their: -

              o Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and

              o Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

      d) To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.

      e) With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow the Group
              to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to the sustainability
              practices and policies.

     SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS

      Sustainability management is embedded within the Group’s operations. The Group’s current efforts in relation
      to the Material Sustainability Matters are set out below: -

      Economic

      A.	Product Quality and Safety

              We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard on our
              products that are safe for consumption.

              We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry
              such as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri
              (“MeSTI”) and Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as
              well as attained the Halal MS 1500:2009 certification.

              We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee
              which have clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority, and appropriate reporting procedures to
              ensure the Group’s product quality and safety.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      35

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                               SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                                      STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS (CONT’D)

Environment

A. Effluent and waste management

       Food product manufacturing generally produces significant volume of materials/resources which would
       potentially end up as wastewater. The effluent discharge from food production is treated through the
       wastewater treatment plant (“WWT”) before being released. The ongoing upgrades have been carried
       out on the WWT to cater for the increase in production. Routine monitoring and reporting have been done
       by an accredited laboratory to ensure wastewater discharged is within the Department of Environment’s
       wastewater effluent discharge standards.

B. Energy consumption

       Since March 2019, our Group’s Bukit Minyak production facility had switched to natural gas to fuel our
       boilers.

       Benefits included eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulphur into the air and extending the life
       spans of the boiler and chimney. Gas is also cleaner because it is sludge free and being directly piped-in,
       gas is better insulated against supply disruptions.

Social

A. Workplace Safety & Health

       We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is
       the foundation of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational
       Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FMA”) 1997 are adhered to.

       Training on quality, safety and health have been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are aware of
       their significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health have been well communicated
       throughout the Group.

B. Human resource management

       Human resources are seen as one of the cores for the Group, as it is important to recruit and retain high
       calibre employees to add value to the Group. The Group is committed to nurturing a diverse, competent,
       and dedicated talent pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career
       development and performance enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions.

       For the non-executive production employees, the Group would ensure the health and safety policies are
       adhered to as the compliance would benefit the employees, purchasers, investors as well as public in the
       form of quality products and environment friendly practices which do not harm the public environment.

C. Contribution to local community

       Similar to previous years, as part of good corporate citizenship program, a portion of the proceeds from
       the sale of REX’s products which carry the “Love Rex” logo goes to support the various disabled and
       underprivileged groups in our society.

       Throughout FYE 2023, we continue to support 3 homes for the underprivileged in the Klang Valley while
       under the REX CARE program, over 1,000 deserving families throughout the country were provided
       food baskets.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

36
            Annual Report 2023

   AUDIT COMMITTEE
   REPORT

The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors
(“Board”) in discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and
reporting practices as well as corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries
(“the Group”).

1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC

       During the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members
       as follows, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of Bursa
       Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and
       as recommended by Step Up Practice 9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the
       Audit Committee comprises solely Independent Directors:-

Name                                      Designation                    Directorship
Tai Keat Chai                               Chairman   Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain     Member    Independent Non-Executive Director
Adnan bin Ahmad                              Member    Independent Non-Executive Director

The Chairman of the ARMC, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
fulfilling the requisite qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements.

None of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs. Moore
Stephens Associates PLT in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any
financial interest in Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT.

2. MEETING ATTENDANCE

       The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2023. The details of the attendance of the
       respective ARMC members are as follows:-

Name                                                   No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai                                                          5 of 5
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                               4 of 5
Adnan bin Ahmad                                                        5 of 5

* The Meetings were held on 29 August 2022, 11 October 2022, 29 November 2022, 14 February 2023
       and 16 May 2023.

The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2023,
wherein the ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive
Directors and management personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2023, which was as required in the
Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External
Auditors should be conducted annually.

3. TOR
       The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      37

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                           AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                                                            REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC

       During the FYE 2023, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties,
       functions and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-

       Financial performance and reporting

       a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial
               quarters ended 30 June 2022, 30 September 2022, 31 December 2022 and 31 March 2023, and
               recommended the same to the Board for approval.

       b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of
               the Group on quarterly basis.

       c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2022
               (“FYE 2022”) to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view
               of the Company’s financial position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with
               the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting
               Standards, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.

       External audit

       a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors and
               management personnel.

       b) Received the ARMC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2022,
               covering matters to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.

       c) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 prepared
               by the External Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit
               matters and areas of audit emphasis and accounting standard updates.

       d) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2023, and recommended the
               same to the Board for approval.

       e) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-

               • Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
               • Review of component auditors’ working papers.

       f) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2023
               vide a formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review
               and being satisfied with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the
               Board to recommend to the shareholders for approval.

       g) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

38
            Annual Report 2023

    AUDIT COMMITTEE
    REPORT

     (CONT’D)

     4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (CONT’D)

              Internal audit

              a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to
                     those recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were
                     taken and recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.

              b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit
                     functions vide a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary
                     authority to carry out its work.

              c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2023 as prepared by the
                     Internal Auditors.

              Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)

              a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis
                     to ensure that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-
                     Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29 November 2022.

              b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing
                     Shareholder Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase
                     its Own Shares, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.

              Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control

              a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the
                     Company, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.

              b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement,
                     and recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2022 Annual Report.

              Other matters

              a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s
                     peer performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of
                     office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they
                     have carried out their duties properly in accordance to the TOR.

              b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the
                     ARMC.

              c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      39

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                           AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                                                            REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION

       The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit
       service provider to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an
       effective internal control and governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control
       system is satisfactory and operating effectively.

       The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-

       a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;

       b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved
               audit plan:-

               • Purchasing and payments for PT Rex Canning, Indonesia
               • Recurrent related party transactions for Rex Industry Berhad

       c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The
               reports highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations
               for improvements; and

       d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported
               the same to the ARMC.

       The internal audit reviews carried out for the FYE 2023 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in
       any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual
       report.

       The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 was
       RM9,412.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

40
            Annual Report 2023

   STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
   FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
      under paragraph 15.26(a).

      The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company
      and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
      Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so
      as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its
      results and cash flows for the year then ended.

      The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023:-

      • the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
      • reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
      • all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
      • the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

      The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable
      accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial
      statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2)
      of the Companies Act 2016 is set out in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report
      enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June
      2023.

      The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the
      Group are released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing
      public informed of the Group’s latest performance and developments.

      The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are
      reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other
      irregularities and material misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not
      absolute assurance against material misstatement, loss or fraud.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      41

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                       STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                        AND INTERNAL CONTROL

This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”)
of Rex Industry Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2023 pursuant to
Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided
by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued
by the Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.

The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased
to set out below its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope
of risk management and internal control of the Group during the year.

The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management
and internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the
Group’s assets and regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that
risk cannot be totally eliminated and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and
manage risks and provide some reasonable but not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of
the Company are safeguarded against material losses and unauthorised use and that the financial statements
are not materially misstated and the Group is managed and operated in a systematic manner.

The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility,
authority and appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered
by the Board and shall be responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant
risks affecting the achievement of business objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating,
monitoring and managing risks is an on-going process. All significant issues identified and affecting the
business objectives of the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.

The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the
Group include:

1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
       Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas
       of responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;

2. Involvement of the Group Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance
       at operational and management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and
       procedures. The Group Managing Director has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic
       issues and challenges affecting the respective business units with the heads of business units. Significant
       matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the Board on a timely basis; and

3. The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the
       Group by the Group Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief
       Financial Officer on quarterly basis;

The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service
provider that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee. The Group adopts a risk-based approach
in identifying major operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking
into consideration corporate exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry
out reviews on areas which are identified by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy
and effectiveness of the control processes to address the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen
the control processes, where appropriate.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

42
            Annual Report 2023

    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
    AND INTERNAL CONTROL

     (CONT’D)

      The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed
      appropriate within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and
      Risk Management Committee with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective
      action taken by Management to ensure adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of
      internal control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess implementation of past audit findings are also carried out
      to ensure effectiveness of the system of internal control implemented. During the financial year, the Internal
      Auditors reviewed the controls over purchasing and payments for the Indonesia subsidiary and recurrent
      related party transactions of the Group. Their report has been presented to the Audited and Risk Management
      Committee.

      The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies
      of the Group. Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees
      the risk management process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”)
      formed at subsidiary level.

      Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:
      • Identification of risks by the process owners
      • Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
      • Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
      • Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
      • Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks

      The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has
      not resulted in any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the
      Group during the financial year under review or require disclosure in the 2023 Annual Report. Nevertheless,
      the Board recognises the review and improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal
      control is an on-going process to accommodate evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the
      assistance from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal control of the Group could be closely managed,
      monitored and improved over time.

     Conclusion

      The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks,
      procedures, management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered
      appropriate. While the Board acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not
      eliminate the possibility of collusion or deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors
      and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might result in poor judgement, an assurance was received from
      the Group Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that the risk management and internal control system
      of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues to take measures to enhance and
      strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.

     Review of the Statement by External Auditors

      The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the
      financial year ended 30 June 2023. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance
      Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on
      the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
      (“MIA”). AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement
      covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and
      control procedures. AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors to consider whether the processes
      described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the Annual
      Report will, in fact, remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have reported to
      the Board that nothing has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that
      this Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the
      adequacy and integrity of the risk management and internal control system.

      This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 24
      October 2023.
                                                                                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                   43

                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2023

                                            ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
                                                               INFORMATION

In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following
information is provided: -

1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals

       Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex ("Rex Share(s)" or "Share(s)")
       ("Rights Share(s)") on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together with
       54,805,755 free detachable warrants in Rex ("Warrant(s)") on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights
       Shares subscribed ("Rights Issue with Warrants")

       The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants. The
       Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765. The status of the utilisation of
       proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -

Details of utilisation       Proposed         Actual      Balance       Estimated
Business expansion           Utilisation    Utilisation  (RM’000)    Timeframe for
                             (RM’000)       (RM’000)
Working capital                                             6,189       Utilisation
                               10,000          (3,811)
Expenses for this                                              –   Within 18 months
corporate exercise              5,882         (5,882)
Total                                                          –
                                 560           (560)
                                                            6,189
                               16,442        (10,253)

2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

During the FYE 2023, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, the External Auditors, has rendered
certain audit and non-audit services to the Company and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as
follows:-

Item                                                               Company      Group
                                                                          (RM)    (RM)

Audit services rendered

Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2023                         60,000       224,681

Non-audit services rendered

(a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control    8,000        8,000

(b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers                   –            28,726

Total                                                              68,000       261,407

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

       There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’
       interests or are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2023.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

44
            Annual Report 2023

   MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
   & ANALYSIS

     Our History and Business
      Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965
      by the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn. Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share
      capital of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd. and took on the function
      as a holding company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ("Bursa
      Securities"). The Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn. Bhd. on 5 February 1994. It was converted
      to a public limited company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second
      Board of Bursa Securities on 29 November 1995.

      Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex
      Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into
      a leading manufacturer, distributor and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in
      Malaysia. PT Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began commercial operations in August 1992; with principal
      activities in manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent
      standards set by the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. Most of PT Rex’s canned seafood
      is exported to the US and EU.

      Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing
      population.

     Our Policy

      Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They
      are implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance
      with local and international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.

     Financial Performance
      For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2023, the Group recorded revenue of RM162.40 million which
      represents an increase of approximately RM1.29 million as compared to the preceding financial year of RM161.11
      million. The increase in revenue was mainly due to higher revenue contribution from the local subsidiaries.

      The Group recorded a loss before tax of RM43.41 million for FYE 30 June 2023 as compared to profit before
      tax of RM2.93 million made in the preceding financial year. The loss before tax was mainly due to a one-off
      impairment of the plant’s fixed assets, allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and provision for
      employee termination benefits arising from the decommissioning of the Bukit Minyak, Penang production
      facility in line with the business rationalisation plan.

      Other contributing factors to the loss were higher input cost and the effects of a weakening Ringgit.
                                                                                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                        45

                                                                                          Annual Report 2023

                                                       MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                & ANALYSIS

                                                                                            (CONT’D)

Financial Performance (cont’d)

REX GROUP                 		                           FY 2021    FY 2022      FY 2023
(All in RM’000)
Revenue                   		                           160,539        161,111   162,408
(Loss)/Profit before tax           			                     3,912      2,934     (43,414)

The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance
and deliver satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.

Financial Highlights

                                 30 Jun 19  30 Jun 20  30 Jun 21  30 Jun 22    30 Jun 23
                                   RM'000      RM'000    RM'000     RM'000       RM'000

Statement of Profit and Loss

Revenue                          136,609    149,245    160,539    161,111      162,408

Interest expense                 1,905      2,050      1,531      1,171        1,617

					

(Loss)/Profit before Tax after

Minority Interest                (14,317)   (8,396)    3,912      2,934        (43,414)

					

(Loss)/Profit after Tax and

Minority Interest                (13,297)   (9,465)    2,603      2,027        (44,399)

Dividend declared                –          –          (987)      –            –
 
Statement of Financial Position

Paid-up Share Capital            73,742     73,742     97,903     97,903       113,717

Shareholders Funds               113,672    101,891    127,404    129,714      103,562

Borrowings                       36,472     42,209     28,884     27,804       31,766

Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”)      106,635    94,854     120,367    122,677      96,525
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

46
            Annual Report 2023

     MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
     & ANALYSIS

      (CONT’D)

Financial Performance (cont’d)

Financial Ratio

					

                           30 Jun 19 30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22 30 Jun 23

                                 RM'000   RM'000  RM'000  RM'000  RM'000

Investment Ratio

NTA per share                    0.43     0.38    0.24    0.25                                    0.15

					

Basic (Loss)/Earnings

 Per Share (Sen)                 (5.39)   (3.84)  0.64    0.38                                    (7.04)

Dividend per share (sen)         –        –       0.2     –                                       –

Operating Ratio					

					

After tax return on

 shareholders' fund (%)          (11.70)  (9.29)  2.04    1.56                                    (42.87)

Pre-tax profit margin (%)        (10.48)  (5.63)  2.44    1.82                                    (26.73)

Financial Ratio					

Gearing (times)                  0.32     0.42    0.23    0.22                                    0.31

Interest Coverage ratio          (6.52)   (3.10)  3.55    3.51                                    (25.85)

					

Liquidity ratio

					

Current ratio                    1.80     1.32    1.87    1.79                                    1.67

Quick ratio                      0.99     0.61    0.93    0.83                                    0.77

 
Note:

1) The issued ordinary shares of the Company was increased from 493,252,936 to 657,670,581 units of
       ordinary shares by way of issuance of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares arising from right issue exercise.
       The right issue had been completed when the Rights Shares were listed and quoted on the Main Market
       of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.

2) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/
       profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares
       outstanding during the financial year.

Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      47

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                             MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                                       & ANALYSIS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

CORPORATE EXERCISE

The Company undertook a fund-raising exercise during the financial year for a renounceable rights issue for
ordinary shares at RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares
held, together with 54,805,755 Warrants on the basis of 1 Warrant for every 3 Rights Shares subscribed. With
164,417,645 Rights Shares subscribed, the Company raised proceeds of approximately RM16.44 million. The
Rights Shares and Warrants were listed and quoted on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
on 30 August 2022.

The proceeds raised from the Rights Issue were utilised firstly in priority to defray the expenses related to the
Rights Issue, secondly towards business expansion, and lastly towards the working capital required for the
day-to day operations of the Group.

Outlook and Prospects

The Group expects the business environment in the foreseeable future to remain challenging due to continued
uncertainties in the commodity markets, geo-political tensions, weakening of the Ringgit and consumer
demand being impacted by inflationary pressures.

Despite the challenging business conditions, our sales revenue remains steady in the last three years.
Additionally, consumers are expected to down trade given the continued inflationary pressures and our Group
will be poised to benefit because of our value proposition.

A big part of the Group’s business rationalisation plan is to drive for operational efficiencies and cost
optimisation coupled with our steady sales trend, the Group remains confident in improving its financial
position.

The Group will further explore outsourcing certain products to third parties and continue to invest in our
Brands and product innovation to drive sustainable growth.

Acknowledgements

I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our new Executive Director, Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa,
who has been appointed to our Board on 22 May 2023. Her experience and expertise will contribute positively
to the strategies and direction of the Group.

I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for
their continued support, trust, and unwavering confidence over the past years.

To all our dedicated staff and management team, thank you for your commitment and leading the Company
forward.

DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

48
            Annual Report 2023

   ANALYSIS OF
   SHAREHOLDINGS

     AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023

Class of Securities      :        Ordinary Shares
                                  1,463
Total Number of Holders  :        657,670,581 Ordinary Shares
                                  One (1) vote per Ordinary Share
Number of Issued Share Capital :

Voting Rights            :

DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

		                                                No. of		                     No. of
                                                                      Shares Held
Size of Shareholdings		Shareholders                                %                                %
                                                                                   678
1 – 99		                                          25        1.71              64,727           0.00
                                                         10.53           2,948,567              0.01
100 – 1,000		                                     154    32.67          21,376,666              0.45
                                                         41.90        445,784,477               3.25
1,001 – 10,000		                                  478    13.06        187,495,466              67.78
                                                                                               28.51
10,001 – 100,000		                                613      0.14
                                                                                            100.00
100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		                        191

32,883,529 and above (**)		                       2

TOTAL		                                           1,463            100.00 657,670,581

Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
                ** 5% and above of Issued Shares

SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based
on the Register of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:

                                                  Direct Interest     Deemed Interest

		                                                No. of		            No. of

Substantial Shareholders		Shares Held                              %  Shares Held           %

Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		174,310,400                    26.50                           –        –
                                                          12.68       174,310,400 (1)       26.50
Darmendran Kunaretnam		83,399,603                                     174,310,400 (1)       26.50
                                                               –
Chee Cheng Chun 		                                –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
       Taipan Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                              49

                                                                     Annual Report 2023

                                                                    ANALYSIS OF
                                                              SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                                                (CONT’D)

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the
Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:

                          Direct Interest                     Deemed Interest

		                        No. of		                            No. of

Directors		Shares Held                                %       Shares Held           %

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		 9,415,600   1.43                      –        –
                                                      12.68   174,310,400 (1)       26.50
Darmendran Kunaretnam		83,399,603                             174,310,400 (1)       26.50
                                                           –
Chee Cheng Chun		         –                                –                     –        –
                                                           –                     –        –
Tai Keat Chai		           –                                –       100,000(2)        0.02
                                                           –                     –        –
Adnan bin Ahmad		         –

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		    –

Kong Wai Fa		             –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
       Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
       held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

50
            Annual Report 2023

   THIRTY (30) LARGEST
   SHAREHOLDERS

      AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023

THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)

No. Name of Shareholders                                             No. of Shares     (%)
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                            142,084,800    21.60
                                                                                     6.90
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                    45,410,666
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                        4.96
                                                                       32,640,900    4.90
3. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd.                                            32,225,600
                                                                                      4.87
4. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                    32,033,866    4.73
        (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)         31,097,200  4.08
                                                                       26,809,066
5. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.                                                                3.95
                                                                       25,984,800     3.68
6. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.                                                   24,207,600
                                                                                      3.24
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                           21,306,666     2.21
        (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)                   14,560,672   2.02
                                                                         13,283,733    1.74
8. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.                                              11,452,600
                                                                                      1.60
9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                            10,527,066
        (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)                                  1.43
                                                                          9,415,600
10. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan                                                           1.32
                                                                          8,650,666
11. Darmendran Kunaretnam                                                             1.30
                                                                          8,533,333
12. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd.                                                             1.23
                                                                          8,068,266
13. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                  1.10
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)                    7,216,000
                                                                                      1.04
14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 6,826,666
        (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L                                 1.01
        K Ragavan (021))                                                  6,666,666   1.00
                                                                         6,596,000
15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                             0.99
        (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)       6,531,066   0.77
                                                                          5,052,528
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)

17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran
         Kunaretnam (MY2013))

18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)

19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)

20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran
         Kunaretnam (7000587))

21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd.

22. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
        Exempt AN for Aham Asset Management Berhad (TSTAC/CLNTT)

23. Haridas A/L Suppiah

24. Lee Sew Keng
                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                            51

                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                     THIRTY (30) LARGEST
                                                                             SHAREHOLDERS

                                                                                               (CONT’D)

THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023 (Cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)

No. Name of Shareholders                                             No. of Shares      (%)
25. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                   5,040,000     0.77

        (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)                 4,602,000     0.70

26. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      4,266,666    0.65
        (Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)
                                                                          3,473,600    0.53
27. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.                                      3,066,666     0.47
        (Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))
                                                                          2,705,333    0.41
28. Kuek Boon Siang                                                   560,336,291    85.20

29. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))

30. Kamlesh Kumar

        TOTAL
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

52
            Annual Report 2023

   ANALYSIS OF
   WARRANT A HOLDINGS

      AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023

Class of Securities            :                      Warrants A
                                                      54,805,755
Number of Outstanding Warrants A Issued :             405
                                                      1 Warrant for 1 Ordinary Share
Total Number of Holders        :                      23 August 2027

Exercise Ratio                 :

Maturity Date                  :

DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANT A HOLDINGS

		No. of Warrant		                                                             No. of
                                                                       Warrants A
Size of Warrant A Holdings		 A Holders                     %                                          %
                                                                                 1,201
1 – 99		                                              27     6.67             29,615             0.00
                                                           14.32            662,807               0.05
100 – 1,000		                                         58   42.96          3,514,732
                                                           23.95        29,071,568                  1.21
1,001 – 10,000		                                      174               21,525,832                 6.41
                                                              11.11                             53.04
10,001 – 100,000		                                    97    0.99       54,805,755               39.29

100,001 – 2,740,286 (*)		                             45                                      100.00

2,740,287 and above (**)		                            4

TOTAL		 405                                                100.00

Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Warrants A
                ** 5% and above of Issued Warrants A

DIRECTORS’ WARRANT A HOLDINGS

The Directors’ Warrant A Holdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Warrant
Holdings of the Company as at 29 September 2023 are as follows:

                                                      Direct Interest                 Deemed Interest

		                                                    No. of		                        No. of

		Warrants A                                               %           Warrants A             %

Directors		                                           Held 		                         Held

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain		 784,666          1.43                        –           –
                                                           12.68       14,525,866 (1)         26.50
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965                                      14,525,866 (1)         26.50
                                                                –
Chee Cheng Chun		                                     –         –                       –           –
                                                                –                       –           –
Tai Keat Chai		                                       –         –           33,333 (2)         0.06
                                                                –                       –           –
Adnan bin Ahmad		                                     –

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		                                –

Kong Wai Fa		                                         –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
       Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
       held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.
                                                                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                    53

                                                                                                  Annual Report 2023

                                                                                         ANALYSIS OF
                                                                         WARRANT A HOLDINGS

                                                                                                       (CONT’D)

THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)

No. Name of Shareholders                                                  No. of Shares    (%)
                                                                                         19.02
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                                10,423,733
                                                                                          7.67
2. Warrants Capital Limited                                               4,204,700       7.48

3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      4,102,133       5.10
        (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)                         4.99

4. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.                                                     2,795,266       4.87
                                                                                          4.62
5. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 2,733,000
        (Pledged Securities Account for Hee Yuen Sang (MY2105)                           4.49
                                                                                          2.64
6. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.                                                    2,669,488       2.49
                                                                                          2.43
7. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      2,534,222       2.06
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                            2.01
                                                                                          1.60
8. Darmendran Kunaretnam                                                  2,463,389
                                                                                          1.43
9. Voon Jye Wah                                                           1,445,300
                                                                                           1.32
10. Chai Mei Ling                                                         1,365,000
                                                                                          1.30
11. GV Asia Fund Limited                                                  1,332,300
                                                                                           1.23
12. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd.                                             1,130,200
                                                                                           1.19
13. Hee Yuen Sang                                                         1,099,500        1.10

14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 877,255         1.07
        (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))                   1.04

15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 784,666          1.01
        (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)                       0.82
                                                                                          0.77
16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                          720,888
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)

17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                711,111
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))

18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                 672,355
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)

19. Teo Tiew                                                              654,500

20. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                   601,333
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)

21. Muhamad Fairiezal Bin Basri                                           584,600

22. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                           568,888
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))

23. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd.                                    555,555

24. Beh Chan Chun                                                         450,000

25. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                    420,000
        (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

54
            Annual Report 2023

     ANALYSIS OF
     WARRANT A HOLDINGS

      (CONT’D)

THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29
SEPTEMBER 2023 (cont’d)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)

No. Name of Shareholders                                             No. of Shares       (%)
26. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.                                          355,555    0.65

        (Exempt AN for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))          336,733    0.61
27. Ewe Hong Khoon                                                          329,000    0.60
28. Chai Mei Ling                                                           279,000     0.51
29. Leow Ho Keng                                                             255,555    0.47
30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                        47,455,225    86.59
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ong Yoong Nyock (8039533))
        TOTAL

			
                                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                            55

                                                                      Annual Report 2023

                                                          CORPORATE
                                                           STRUCTURE

REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

         199301027926 (282664-K)

100%                              Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd
100%                                 Rex Trading Sdn Bhd

100% Fika Foods Corporation Sdn Bhd

30%

      70%                         P.T. REX CANNING, INDONESIA

100%  Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd

100%   Cinta Edar (M) Snd Bhd
100%  Best Aqua Food Sdn Bhd

100%                              Rex Foods Sdn Bhd

100%  Gainasia International Limited
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

56
            Annual Report 2023

   DIRECTORS’
   REPORT

The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its
subsidiaries are set out in Note 12 to the financial statements.

There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year.

RESULTS

				 Group                       Company
				 RM                                   RM

Loss for the financial year, net of tax attributable to
 Owners of the Company				 (44,399,125) (31,127,458)

DIVIDENDS

No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The
Company is not in a position to pay or declare dividends for the current financial year.

RESERVES AND PROVISIONS

There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those
disclosed in the financial statements.

ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES

During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up ordinary shares from RM97,903,444
to RM113,716,680 pursuant to the Rights Issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.10
per Rights Share, on the basis of one Rights Share for every three existing ordinary shares held, together with
54,805,755 free detachable warrants on the basis of one Warrant for every three Rights Shares subscribed,
net of issuance expenses of RM628,529.

The proceeds from the Rights Issue are for business expansion and working capital purposes. The new
ordinary shares issued during the financial year ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.

Other than the foregoing, the Company did not issue any other shares or debentures during the financial year.
                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                            57

                                                 Annual Report 2023

                                                    DIRECTORS’
                                                           REPORT

                                                              (CONT’D)

WARRANTS 2022/2027

During the financial year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”) pursuant
to the Rights Issue with Warrants and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for
the Warrants on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022. The Warrants
2022/2027 are constituted by the Deed Poll dated 29 August 2022.

The salient features and other terms of the Warrants 2022/2027 are disclosed in Note 20(ii) to the financial
statements.

During the financial year, no warrants were exercised. As at 30 June 2023, the total number of Warrants
2022/2027 that remained unexercised were 54,805,755.

Details of Warrants 2022/2027 issued to Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Interests section of this
report.

OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.

DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY

The Directors in office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are:

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain

Darmendran Kunaretnam*

Adnan Bin Ahmad

Chee Cheng Chun*

Tai Keat Chai*

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim                            (Appointed on 11 October 2022)

Kajendra Pathmanathan     (Appointed on 11 October 2022 and Resigned on 20 January 2023)

Kong Wai Fa                                     (Appointed on 22 May 2023)

* Being a Director of one or more subsidiaries

DIRECTORs OF THE SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Pursuant to Section 253(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Directors who served in the subsidiaries (excluding
Directors who are also Directors of the Company) in office since the beginning of the financial year to the
date of this report is as follows:

Vong Nee Toh
Drs. Lody Joko Susilo

 
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

58
            Annual Report 2023

     DIRECTORS’
     REPORT

      (CONT’D)

DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies
Act 2016, the interest of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in shares or debentures of the
Company and its related corporations during the financial year were as follows:

                                                          Number of Ordinary Shares

		At			At

		                                          1.7.2022      Bought            Sold 30.6.2023

		                                          Unit          Unit              Unit     Unit

Name of Directors
Ordinary shares in the Company

Direct interests:                                          2,354,000        – 9,415,600
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain 		 7,061,600     20,849,899        – 83,399,603
Darmendran Kunaretnam 		 62,549,704

Indirect interests:                         130,732,800   43,577,600        – 174,310,400
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		                130,732,800   43,577,600        – 174,310,400
Chee Cheng Chun*                                400,000#                 –
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		                                                 300,000  100,000
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		

                                                          Number of Warrants

			                                         At			                                               At
			                                                                                  30.6.2023
			                                         1.7.2022      Allotted Conversion
                                                                                              Unit
Warrants shareholding                       Unit          Unit              Unit
 registered in the name
 of Directors                               –             784,666           –        784,666
In the Company
Direct interest:                            - 6,949,965                     – 6,949,965
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain		
Darmendran Kunaretnam 		                    - 14,525,866                    - 14,525,866

Indirect interest:                          - 14,525,866                    - 14,525,866
Darmendran Kunaretnam*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		                -             33,333            -        33,333
Chee Cheng Chun*
- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		
Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		

* Deemed interested via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies
       Act 2016 in Malaysia.

^ Indirect interest by virtue of shares held by his spouse pursuant to section 59 and 197 of the Companies
       Act 2016 in Malaysia.

# At date of appointment

The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares and warrants
of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.
                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                            59

                                                 Annual Report 2023

                                                    DIRECTORS’
                                                           REPORT

                                                              (CONT’D)

DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the Company
and the estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise than in cash
from the Company and its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows:

				 Company Subsidiaries

				 RM                                                    RM

Fees and allowances				                         89,100       137,000
Salaries and other emoluments				                       -  1,228,335
Contributions to defined contribution plan				          -
Social security contributions				                       -      72,108
                                                                 1,438

				                                            89,100     1,438,881

Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed in the
financial statements or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a contract made
by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member,
or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, except as disclosed in Note 28 to
the financial statements.

There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.

OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

(a) Before the statements of comprehensive income and statements of financial position of the Group and
       of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:

       (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the
               making of provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no known bad
               debts and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and

       (ii) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of
               business including their value as shown in the accounting records of the Company have been
               written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.

(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:

       (i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for
               doubtful debts inadequate to any substantial extent;

       (ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group
               and of the Company misleading;

       (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
               of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or

       (iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount
               stated in the financial statements misleading.

 
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

60
            Annual Report 2023

     DIRECTORS’
     REPORT

      (CONT’D)

      OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)

      (c) At the date of this report, there does not exist:

              (i) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
                     financial year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

              (ii) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
                     financial year.

      (d) In the opinion of the Directors:

              (i) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within
                     the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year, which will or may affect the ability
                     of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;

              (ii) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not
                     been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature other
                     than as disclosed in the financial statements; and

              (iii) no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between
                     the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the
                     results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this
                     report is made, except from the business rationalistion plan as disclosed in Note 34 to the financial
                     statements.

      (e) The total amount paid to or receivable by the auditors of the Company and its subsidiaries as remuneration
              for their services for the financial year are as set out in Note 6 to the financial statements.

      (f) There was no amount paid to or receivable by any third party in respect of the services provided to the
              Company or any of its subsidiaries by any Director or past Director of the Company.

      (g) There was no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any Director, officer or auditor of the Company
              and its subsidiaries.

      SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR

      Significant event during the financial year is disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.

      AUDITORS

      The auditors, Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.

      Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24
      October 2023.

TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN  DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
 MOHD ZAIN
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      61

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                        STATEMENT BY
                                                              DIRECTORS

                                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

We, the undersigned, being two of the Directors of the Company, do hereby state that, in the opinion of the
Directors, the accompanying financial statements as set out on pages 67 to 147 are drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group
and of the Company as at 30 June 2023 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial
year then ended.

Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24
October 2023.

TAN SRI DATO’ MOHD IBRAHIM BIN  DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
 MOHD ZAIN

                                                              STATUTORY
                                                         DECLARATION

                                                   PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016

I, CHIA HUP TONG, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of the Company, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements as set out on pages 67 to 147 are to the best of
my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to
be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

Subscribed and solemnly declared by the
abovenamed
at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory
on 24 October 2023.

Before me,                      CHIA HUP TONG
MOHAMAD ZULISWANDI BIN MOHAMED
W1006
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

62
            Annual Report 2023

   INDEPENDENT
   AUDITORS’ REPORT

      TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
      REGISTRATION NO.: 199301027926 (282664-K)
      (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)

      Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

      Opinion

      We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
      position as at 30 June 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income,
      statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
      financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting
      policies, as set out on pages 67 to 147.

      In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
      Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
      financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
      Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

      Basis for Opinion

      We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
      Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
      Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
      evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

      Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities

      We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
      Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
      Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
      International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
      in accordance with the By-Laws and IESBA Code.

      Key Audit Matters

      Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our
      audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters
      were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
      whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 

      Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment

      Goodwill

      As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 13 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Group’s
      goodwill amounted to approximately RM7.0 million.

      The Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of impairment exists, perform
      impairment assessments of goodwill that has an indefinite useful life. For the purpose of performing impairment
      assessments, goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating unit (“CGU”). The management
      assessed the recoverable amounts of the goodwill by determining the respective CGU based on fair value less
      cost of disposal method using future discounted cash flows. The management concluded that no impairment
      on goodwill is required for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      63

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  INDEPENDENT
                                                                                          AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

Key Audit Matters (cont’d)

Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
(cont’d)

Investments in subsidiaries

As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 12 to the financial statements, the carrying amount of the Company’s
investments in subsidiaries amounted to approximately RM82.0 million. During the financial year, the Company
has recognised an impairment loss of approximately RM30.7 million for its investments in subsidiaries.

A lower of net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amount
of investments in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount
of the investments in subsidiaries based on fair value less cost of disposal method using discounted cash
flows projections derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a
five-year period.

Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)

As at 30 June 2023, as shown in Note 9 to the financial statements, the carrying amounts of the Group’s PPE
amounted to approximately RM52.2 million, representing approximately 29% of the Group’s total assets.

On 2 June 2023, the Company have announced to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”)
regarding the business rationalisation plan to downsize and decommission its production facility in Bukit
Minyak Industrial Park, Seberang Perai Tengah, Pulau Pinang (“Bukit Minyak Production Facility”) in which the
Group operates the facility for the manufacturing of canned food and drinks. This gave rise to an indication
that the carrying amounts of PPE may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amount
of the PPE based on fair value less costs of disposal calculations as well as VIU calculations using cash flows
projections derived from the most recent financial projections approved by the Directors covering a five-year
period.

We have identified the impairment review of goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and PPE as key audit
matters as impairment test involves significant judgement in estimating the underlying assumptions to
be applied in the discounted cash flows projections. The recoverable amounts of goodwill, investments in
subsidiaries and PPE are highly sensitive to key assumptions applied in respect of future revenue growth rate,
gross margin and the discount rate used in the cash flows projections. A small change in the assumption can
have a significant impact on the estimation of the recoverable amount.

Our audit performed and responses thereon

In addressing the matters above, we have performed the following audit procedures to evaluate management’s
basis and assumptions used in the discounted cash flows projections for respective subsidiaries and CGUs:-

• Assessed whether the recoverable amounts based on discounted cash flows projections were prepared
       by management based on the approved budgets by the Directors;

• Evaluated management’s budgeting process by comparing actual results to historical cash flows
       projections;

• Reviewed management’s impairment assessment including compared, gross margin and discount
       rate against our knowledge of the subsidiaries’ and CGUs’ historical performance, business and cost
       management strategies based on facts and circumstances currently available;
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

64
            Annual Report 2023

     INDEPENDENT
     AUDITORS’ REPORT

      (CONT’D)

      Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

      Key Audit Matters (cont’d)

      Impairment assessment on goodwill, investments in subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment
      (cont’d)

      Our audit performed and responses thereon (cont’d)

      • Performed sensitivity analysis by changing certain key assumptions used in the discounted cash
              flows projections and assessed the impact on the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments in
              subsidiaries, goodwill and PPE;

      • Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE; and

      • Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments
              to estimate the fair values of the subsidiaries.

      Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

      The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
      information included in the Annual Report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
      the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

      Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
      and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

      In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is
      to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
      with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
      otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

      If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
      information, we are required to report the fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

      Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

      The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and
      of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
      International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
      Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
      preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
      whether due to fraud or error.

      In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
      assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
      matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either
      intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
      do so.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      65

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  INDEPENDENT
                                                                                          AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:

(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of
       the Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those
       risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The
       risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
       error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
       of internal control.

(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
       that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
       effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.

(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
       estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.

(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
       based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
       conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a
       going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
       auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
       or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
       evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause
       the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
       the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
       Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
       business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We
       are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
       responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

66
            Annual Report 2023

     INDEPENDENT
     AUDITORS’ REPORT

      (CONT’D)

      Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

      Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)

      We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
      regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
      reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
       
      From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
      in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and
      are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation
      precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that
      a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
      reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

      Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

      In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
      of which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.

      Other Matter

      This report is made solely to the members of the Company as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
      Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
      person for the content of this report.

MOORE STEPHENS ASSOCIATES PLT                   TAN KEI HUI
201304000972 (LLP0000963-LCA)           03429/04/2025 J
Chartered Accountants (AF002096)  Chartered Accountant

Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Date: 24 October 2023
                                                                                                               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                  67

                                                                                                                Annual Report 2023

                                                           STATEMENTS OF
                                            COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

                                           FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023

                                                          Group                 Company

		2023                                                           2022     2023               2022

                              Note         RM                    RM       RM                 RM

Revenue                       4 162,408,090 161,111,027                   –                  –

Changes in manufactured inventories		 (6,482,134) (5,885,489)             –                  –

Raw materials and consumables used		       (111,457,480)  (101,087,836)                   –                –
Staff costs		                              (23,357,395)    (21,093,810)         (89,100)           (71,710)
Depreciation		                              (4,656,957)     (4,630,378)
Other expenses		                           (35,244,942)    (27,253,246)                   –                –
Impairment loss on financial assets		       (3,336,868)        (106,827)      (292,896)          (252,177)
Impairment loss on non-financial assets		  (20,633,216)        (156,083)                     (1,564,836)
Other income		                                               3,207,948                    –  (4,374,609)
                                                963,849                   (30,745,462)
                                                                                                           –
                                                                                          –

(Loss)/profit from operations		 (41,797,053)              4,105,306       (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
                                                           (1,171,083)
Finance costs                 5 (1,616,892)               2,934,223       –                  –
                                                            (907,159)
(Loss)/profit before tax      6 (43,413,945)              2,027,064       (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Tax expense
                              7            (985,180)       1,269,392      –                  –

(Loss)/profit for the financial year		 (44,399,125)                    –  (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
                                                           1,269,392
Other comprehensive income,                2,098,635      3,296,456       –                  –
 net of tax
Item that may be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation		

Item that will not be reclassified         335,128                        –                  –
 subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		

Total other comprehensive                  2,433,763                      –                  –
 income for the financial year		

Total comprehensive income                                                (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
 for the financial year		 (41,965,362)

(Loss)/profit attributable to:                                            (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
Owners of the Company 		 (44,399,125) 2,027,064

Total comprehensive income                                3,296,456       (31,127,458) (6,263,332)
 attributable to:
Owners of the Company 		 (41,965,362)

Basic (loss)/earnings per     8            (7.04)                0.38
 ordinary share attributable                                     0.38
 to Owners of the             8            (7.04)
 Company (sen):
- Basic
- Diluted

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

68
            Annual Report 2023

   STATEMENTS OF
   FINANCIAL POSITION

      AS AT 30 JUNE 2023

                                                            Group                              Company

		2023                                                             2022       2023             2022

                                    Note  RM                       RM         RM                        RM

ASSETS                              9 52,239,323            80,377,179                      –                –
Non-Current Assets                                          5,604,842                       –                –
Property, plant and equipment       10 5,576,472                                            –                –
Right-of-use assets                                                      –    82,013,702       84,880,641
Investment properties               11 5,505,572                         –                  –                –
Investments in subsidiaries                                 7,037,480
Goodwill on consolidation           12    –                                   82,013,702       84,880,641

                                    13 7,037,480

		 70,358,847 93,019,501

Current Assets

Inventories                         14    58,045,582         58,316,937              –                     –
                                          28,669,726        34,408,795               –                     –
Trade receivables                   15                                        30,331             235,497
                                              2,879,181       6,750,592              –         12,166,214
Other receivables                   16                   –                 –  31,320               31,320
                                                                                     –                     –
Amounts due from subsidiaries       17         187,256            161,328     22,018               93,310
                                              936,589          900,000
Tax recoverable		                          17,427,480          7,890,165

Fixed deposits with licensed banks  18

Cash and bank balances		

		 108,145,814 108,427,817                                                    83,669 12,526,341

TOTAL ASSETS		 178,504,661 201,447,318                                        82,097,371 97,406,982

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

Share capital                       19    113,716,680 97,903,444              113,716,680 97,903,444
                                           (1,568,467) (3,667,102)
Reserves                            20                                        –                         –
                                          (8,585,964) 35,478,033
(Accumulated losses)/

 retained earnings		                                                          (34,879,215) (3,751,757)

Total equity attributable to                                                  78,837,465       94,151,687
 Owners of the Company 		 103,562,249 129,714,375

Non-Current Liabilities

Borrowings                          21     8,178,974        9,272,106         –                         –
                                            1,477,185       1,491,888
Deferred tax liabilities            22       477,939         390,087          –                         –

Lease liabilities                   23    10,134,098        11,154,081        –                         –

		                                                                            –                         –
                                                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                           69

                                                                                       Annual Report 2023

                                                                            STATEMENTS OF
                                                                     FINANCIAL POSITION

                                                                                              (CONT’D)

                                                    Group                          Company

		2023                                                     2022      2023          2022

                             Note  RM                      RM        RM                     RM

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Current Liabilities

Borrowings                   21    23,586,617       18,532,065                  –               –
                                   20,010,259       19,823,659                  –               –
Trade payables               24                     21,274,054         127,583        255,372
                                    17,609,197                                  –               –
Other payables               25     3,296,408          596,276       3,132,323     2,999,923
                                                                  –             –               –
Rebate liability             26                  –                              –               –
                                       226,342         273,060
Amounts due to subsidiaries  17                           79,748
                                         79,491
Lease liabilities            23

Tax payable		

		 64,808,314 60,578,862                                             3,259,906 3,255,295

Total Liabilities 		 74,942,412 71,732,943                           3,259,906 3,255,295

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 		 178,504,661 201,447,318              82,097,371 97,406,982

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
                                                                                 Attributable to Owners of the Company                                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

		 Non-distributable                                                                                              Distributable                                  70
                                                                                                                                                                         Annual Report 2023
					 Share Translation Retained                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                  STATEMENTS OF
				 Note                                                                        Capital           Reserve Earnings               Equity      CHANGES IN EQUITY

					RM                                                                                            RM             RM              RM         FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023

Group                                                                            97,903,444        (4,936,494) 34,437,474 127,404,424
At 1 July 2021					
Foreign currency translation difference for foreign operations,                                 –  1,269,392                   –  1,269,392
 representing total other comprehensive income for the financial year		                         –              –  2,027,064       2,027,064
Profit for the financial year					

Total comprehensive income for the financial year				                                     – 1,269,392 2,027,064 3,296,456

Transaction with Owners of the Company

Dividend 				                                                              27             –                   – (986,505) (986,505)

At 30 June 2022					 97,903,444 (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375

                                                              Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                              Non-distributable                    		 Distributable

							 Retained

							 Earnings/

		                                      Share	Other Translation Warrants                           Total (Accumulated               Total
                                                                                                                                  Equity
                             Note  Capital           Reserve  Reserve            Reserve           Reserves	Losses)
                                                                                                                                       RM
		RM                                                 RM       RM                 RM                RM             RM

Group (cont’d)                     97,903,444        –        (3,667,102)        –                 (3,667,102) 35,478,033 129,714,375
At 1 July 2022		
Foreign currency                                  –  –        2,098,635          –                 2,098,635      – 2,098,635
 translation difference                           –
 for foreign operations		                         –  –        –                  –                 –              335,128         335,128
Defined benefit plan                              –
 actuarial gain		                                    –        2,098,635          –                 2,098,635      335,128 2,433,763
Total other comprehensive
 income for the financial year		                     –        –                  –                 – (44,399,125) (44,399,125)
Loss for the financial year		

Total comprehensive income

 for the financial year		               –            –        2,098,635          –                 2,098,635 (44,063,997) (41,965,362)

Transaction with Owners
 of the Company

Rights issue with warrants,

 net of transcation cost 19, 20 15,813,236 (2,092,584)        – 2,092,584                          –              – 15,813,236

At 30 June 2023		 113,716,680 (2,092,584) (1,568,467) 2,092,584                                    (1,568,467) (8,585,964) 103,562,249
                                                       Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                       Non-distributable        		Distributable

							 Retained

							 Earnings/

			                                  Share	Other Warrants                    Total (Accumulated                      Total

		 Note                              Capital           Reserve  Reserve      Reserves	Losses)                        Equity

		RM                                 RM                RM       RM           RM                                  RM  RM

Company                              97,903,444        –                  -  –                                   3,498,080 101,401,524
At 1 July 2021 			                                  –
Loss for the financial year,                           –                  –  –                                   (6,263,332) (6,263,332)
 representing total
 comprehensive income
 for the financial year 			

Transaction with

 Owners of the Company

Dividend		                   27      –                 –                  –  –                                   (986,505) (986,505)

At 30 June 2022/1 July 2022 			      97,903,444        –                  –  –                                   (3,751,757) 94,151,687
Loss for the financial year,                        –
 representing total                                    –                  –  –                                   (31,127,458) (31,127,458)
 comprehensive income
 for the financial year			

Transaction with

 Owners of the Company

Rights issue with warrants,

 net of transcation cost		   19, 20  15,813,236 (2,092,584) 2,092,584        –                                   – 15,813,236

At 30 June 2023 			 113,716,680 (2,092,584) 2,092,584                        – (34,879,215) 78,837,465

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.                                                           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                                            71

                                                                                                                                                                   Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                                                                  STATEMENTS OF
                                                                                                                                               CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                                                                                                            (CONT’D)
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

72
            Annual Report 2023

   STATEMENTS OF
   CASH FLOWS

     FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023

                                                              Group                             Company

		2023                                                               2022     2023              2022

                                      Note      RM                   RM       RM                         RM

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

(Loss)/profit before tax		                  (43,413,945)      2,934,223 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)

                                              5,446,445
                                                   112,359
Adjustments for:
                                                4,126,210
 Allowance for obsolete and                       418,388

  slow-moving inventories		                                –         37,102   –                              –
                                                           –                                                 –
 Depreciation of investment properties		                   –         –        –
                                                                                                             –
 Depreciation of property,                                 –                                                 –
                                                           –
  plant and equipment		                      20,633,216       4,154,724       –                              –
                                                 548,859                                                     –
 Depreciation of right-of-use assets		        2,788,009       475,654         –                              –
                                                1,616,892
 Gain on disposal of property,                   (149,217)                                      1,564,836
                                                                                                4,374,609
  plant and equipment		                         900,000       (389,920)       –
                                                                                                             –
 Gain on lease modification		                   360,000       (2,230)         –                              –
                                                                                                             –
 Gain on lease termination		                    (186,244)            (5,526)  –                              –
                                                (213,599)                                                    –
 Impairment loss on:
                                                   (6,493)                                                   –
 - amounts due from subsidiaries		                                      –                    –
                                                 423,394                –     30,745,462                     –
 - investments in subsidiaries		                   (7,500)    156,083
                                                                31,466                       –               –
 - property, plant and equipment		                         –     75,361                      –               –
                                                              1,171,083                      –
 - trade receivables		                                        (59,385)                       –               –
                                                                                             –
 - other receivables		                                                                                       –
                                                                                                             –
 Interest expense		
                                                                                                             –
 Interest income		

 Provision for employee

  termination benefits                25                      306,210         –

 Provision for dismantling

  and relocation cost                 25                             –        –

 Reversal of impairment loss on:

 - trade receivables		                                               (3,626)  –

 - other receivables		                                        (1,143,733)     –

 Reversal of allowance for obsolete

  and slow-moving inventories		                               (563,116)       –

 Unrealised loss on

  foreign exchange, net		                                     433,548         –

 Waiver of lease liabilities		                                       –        –

 Written off on investments

  in subsidiaries		                                                  –        10

 Operating (loss)/profit before             (6,603,226)       7,607,918       (381,986) (323,887)
  changes in working capital,
  balance carried down		
                                                                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                  73

                                                                         Annual Report 2023

                                                                    STATEMENTS OF
                                                                         CASH FLOWS

                                                                                     (CONT’D)

                                                      Group               Company

		2023                                                       2022   2023            2022

Note                                  RM                     RM     RM              RM

Operating (loss)/profit before        (6,603,226)     7,607,918       (381,986)     (323,887)
 changes in working capital,
 balance brought down		                                                          –              –
                                                                       205,166       (214,849)
Changes in working capital:           (3,094,657)     (4,374,545)      (127,789)
 Inventories		                         6,960,938      (3,446,031)                      53,878
 Trade and other receivables		                                                   –              –
 Trade and other payables		              (975,295)        (53,698)   (304,609)
 Rebate liability		                     2,700,132           13,788                  (484,858)
                                                                                 –              –
Cash used in operations		             (1,012,108)       (252,568)                –              –
 Interest paid		                      (1,616,892)      (1,171,083)               –              –
 Interest received		                                                             –              –
 Tax paid		                               149,217          59,385    (304,609)
 Tax refunded		                       (1,029,916)     (1,030,538)                   (484,858)
                                                                                 –
                                                   –        40,135               –              –
                                                                                                –
Net cash used in operating activities		 (3,509,699) (2,354,669)                  –
                                                                    (15,712,319)                –
Cash Flows from                       (1,673,746) (5,946,296)                       1,385,868
 Investing Activities                                               (15,712,319)
Acquisition of property,              (89,896)        (85,043)                      1,385,868
 plant and equipment		
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:-  –               930,001
 -Cash payments		
Proceeds from disposal                –                      –
 of property,
 plant and equipment		                (1,763,642) (5,101,338)
(Advances to)/repayment
 from subsidiaries		

Net cash (used in)/from
 investing activities		
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

74
            Annual Report 2023

    STATEMENTS OF
    CASH FLOWS

     (CONT’D)

                                                                   Group                        Company

		2023                                                                    2022     2023         2022

                                          Note    RM                      RM       RM                    RM

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

(Repayment to)/advance

 from Directors 		                                (4,307,970)      4,280,010                 –              –
                                                                –               –  132,400         36,605
Advances from subsidiaries                (ii)                  –                               (986,505)
                                                                    (986,505)                –
Dividend paid		                                     2,716,375      (1,779,672)                              –
                                                     (280,061)                               –
Drawdown/(repayment)                                                (336,736)                               –
                                                   15,813,236                                –
 of borrowings, net                       (ii)                                  –

Payment for the principal

 portion of lease liabilities         (ii),(iii)

Proceeds from issuance of

 rights issue with warrants,net

 of transaction cost		                                                             15,813,236            –

Net cash from/(used in)                                            1,177,097       15,945,636 (949,900)
 financing activities		 13,941,580

Net increase/(decrease) in                        8,668,239        (6,278,910)     (71,292)     (48,890)
 cash and cash equivalents 		                      7,507,269       13,756,277      93,310       142,200
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of the financial year 		                    116,381          29,902     –                     –
Effect of exchange rate                           16,291,889        7,507,269
 changes on cash and cash
 equivalents 		

Cash and cash equivalents

 at end of the financial year             (i)                                      22,018       93,310

(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-

                                                                   Group                        Company

		2023                                                                    2022     2023         2022

                                          Note    RM                      RM       RM                    RM

Cash and bank balances 		 17,427,480                               7,890,165       22,018       93,310
                                                                   900,000                –             –
Fixed deposits with licensed banks        18      936,589

			 18,364,069                                                     8,790,165       22,018       93,310

Less: Bank overdrafts                     21 (2,072,180) (1,282,896)               –                     –

			 16,291,889 7,507,269                                                           22,018       93,310
(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:

			 Amount due                                   Bankers’		 Revolving	Lease

			 to Directors Acceptance Term Loans                                                                                    Credit	Liabilities

			RM                                            RM                                                       RM              RM               RM

Group                           8,603,808        13,009,048                                               10,512,227      3,000,000         663,147
2023                                         –                  –                                                      –                –  308,529
At 1 July 2022		                             –                  –                                                      –                –
Additions [Note 10(i)]		                     –                                                                         –                –    (7,500)
Waiver of lease liabilities		                         455,761                                                                                20,166
Exchange differences		

Drawdown, net		                               –  3,038,864                                                             –            –                 –
(Repayment to)/advances from		  (4,307,970)                   –                                           (1,688,889)     (145,413)        (306,210)
Interest expense		                                                                                                         145,413
                                              –    836,536                                                   529,864                          26,149

Net changes in financing cash flows		 (4,307,970) 3,875,400 (1,159,025)                                                   –                (280,061)

At 30 June 2023		 4,295,838 17,340,209 9,353,202 3,000,000                                                                                 704,281

			 Amount due                                   Bankers’		 Revolving	Lease

			 to Directors Acceptance Term Loans                                                                                    Credit	Liabilities

			RM                                            RM                                                       RM              RM               RM

Group
2022

At 1 July 2021		                4,323,798        13,309,730                                               11,702,594      3,000,000        1,106,782
Additions		                                  –                 –                                                       –                –   280,779
Lease modifications		                        –                 –                                                       –                –   (97,905)
Lease termination		                          –                 –                                                       –                –  (291,688)
Exchange differences		                       –                                                                         –                –
                                                     288,623                                                                                     1,915

Advances from/(repayment to)		 4,280,010         (1,158,746)                                              (1,617,704)     (120,132)        (365,915)                                   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                   569,441                                                  427,337        120,132            29,179
Interest expense		              –                                                                                                                                        75

Net changes in financing cash flows		 4,280,010 (589,305) (1,190,367)                                                     –                (336,736)                            Annual Report 2023

At 30 June 2022		 8,603,808 13,009,048 10,512,227 3,000,000                                                                                663,147             STATEMENTS OF
                                                                                                                                                            CASH FLOWS

                                                                                                                                                         (CONT’D)
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

76
            Annual Report 2023

    STATEMENTS OF
    CASH FLOWS

     (CONT’D)

(ii) The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: (cont’d)

						 Amount due
						 to subsidiaries
						 RM

Company

2023

At 1 July 2022					                                                                2,999,923
                                                                                     132,400
Advances from                    				

At 30 June 2023                  				 3,132,323

2022                                                                               2,963,318
At 1 July 2021					                                                                    36,605
Advances from				
                                                                                   2,999,923
At 30 June 2022				

(iii) Cash outflows for leases as lessee are as follows:

					 2023                                                                               2022
					 RM                                                                                    RM

Included in net cash used in operating activities:                       (26,149)     (29,179)
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities 				                    (984,876)    (743,663)
Payment relating to short-term lease and lease of low value assets 		
                                                                                    (336,736)
Included in net cash used in financing activities:                     (280,061)   (1,109,578)
Payment for the principal portion of lease liabilities 			

Total cash outflows for leases 				 (1,291,086)

The annexed notes form an integral part of, and should be read in conjunction with, these financial statements.
                                                                                         REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                               77

                                                                                           Annual Report 2023

                                             NOTES TO THE
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                              30 JUNE 2023

1. CORPORATE INFORMATION

       The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the
       Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

       The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Plot 126, Jalan
       Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai Tengah, Penang.

       The Company is an investment holding company. The principal activities and other information of its
       subsidiaries are set out in Note 12. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities
       of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.

       The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Board of Directors’ resolution
       dated 24 October 2023.

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION

(a) Statement of compliance

The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

The Group and the Company have also considered the new accounting pronouncements in the
preparation of the financial statements.

(i) Accounting pronouncements that are effective and adopted during the financial year

The Group and the Company had adopted the following new accounting pronouncements
that are mandatory as follows:-

Amendments to MFRS 3         Reference to the Conceptual Framework

Amendments to MFRS 116       Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before

                              Intended Use

Amendments to MFRS 137       Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract

Annual Improvements to MFRSs 2018 – 2020

The adoption of the above accounting pronouncements did not have any significant effect on
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

78
            Annual Report 2023

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)

(ii) Accounting pronouncements that are issued but not yet effective and have not been early
       adopted

The Group and the Company have not adopted the following new accounting pronouncements
that have been issued as at the date of authorisation of these financial statements but are not
yet effective for the Group and the Company:-

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023

MFRS 17                               Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17                 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17                 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 – Comparative  
                                       Information
Amendments to MFRS 101 and            Disclosure of Accounting Policies
 MFRS Practice Statement 2

Amendments to MFRS 108                Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112                Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising  
                                       from a SingleTransaction
Amendments to MFRS 112                International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024

Amendments to MFRS 16                 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101                Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101                Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRS 107 and            Supplier Finance Arrangements
 MFRS 7

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025

Amendments to MFRS 121                Lack of Exchangeability

Effective date to be announced        Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
                                       its Associate or Joint Venture
Amendments to MFRS 10 and
 MFRS 128

               The Group and the Company will adopt the above accounting pronouncements when they
               become effective in the respective financial periods. These accounting pronouncements are
               not expected to have any effect to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
               upon their initial applications.

(b) Basis of measurement

       The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical
       cost convention except otherwise disclosed in the accounting policy notes.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      79

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

       (c) Functional and presentation currency

               The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency
               of the primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The
               consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the
               Company’s functional currency, unless otherwise stated.

       (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements

               The summary of accounting policies as described in Note 3 are essential to understand the Group’s
               and the Company’s results of operations, financial position, cash flows and other disclosures.
               Certain of these accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve complex and
               subjective judgements and the use of assumptions, some of which may be for matters that are
               inherently uncertain and susceptible to change. Directors exercise their judgement in the process
               of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies.

               Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the
               financial statements. They affect the application of the Group's and of the Company’s accounting
               policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made.
               Estimates and underlying assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on
               experience and relevant factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be
               reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results may differ from the judgements, estimates
               and assumptions made by management, and will seldom equal the estimated results.

               The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation or uncertainty at
               the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
               carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out below.

               (i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment

                      The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting
                      date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the
                      Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount
                      is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use (“VIU”). When the
                      recoverable amount of an asset is determined based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-
                      generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset is allocated, the management is required to make
                      an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and also to apply a suitable
                      discount rate in order to determine the present value of those cash flows.

               (ii) Impairment of goodwill

                      Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist. This
                      requires management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit
                      to which goodwill is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the
                      present value of those cash flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross
                      margins, growth rates estimated and discount rate used. If the expectation is different from
                      the estimation, such difference will impact the carrying value of goodwill.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

80
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

              (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)

                     (iii) Impairment of financial assets

                             The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss
                             associated with their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology
                             applied as disclosed in Note 3(p)(i) depends on whether there has been a significant increase
                             in credit risk.

                             For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted
                             by MFRS 9, which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition
                             of the receivables.

                             For other receivables and amount due from related parties, the Group and the Company
                             apply the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to
                             measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the
                             probability of default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss given default
                             of that financial asset.

                             For amount due from subsidiaries, the Company applies the approach permitted by MFRS 9,
                             which requires the Company to measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial
                             asset at an amount based on the probability of default occurring within the next 12 months
                             considering the loss given default of that financial asset.

                     (iv) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories

                             In conjunction with the business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would
                             lead to decommissioning of one of the subsidiary’s production facilities subsequent to the
                             financial year, the management performed a review for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
                             When necessary, allowance is provided for obsolete and slow-moving inventories to adjust the
                             carrying value of inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable value. The identification
                             of obsolete and slow- moving inventories is based on considerations such as future demand
                             and selling prices for each product, quality concern and other factors. This review required
                             judgement and estimates where possible changes in these estimates could result in revision
                             to the valuation of inventories.

                     (v) Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries

                             Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
                             circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.

                             Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows
                             generated by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by
                             assumptions and judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount
                             rates. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in
                             subsidiaries.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      81

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (cont’d)

       (d) Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)

               (vi) Defined benefit plan

                      The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well
                      as the present value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial
                      valuation involves making assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality
                      rate, disability rate and resignation rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
                      In determining the appropriate discount rate, management has derived the applicable interest
                      rates from the market yield on government bond which sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing
                      Agency (“IBPA”) per date of calculation.

                      The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 25(iv).

               (vii) Classification between investment properties and property, plant and equipment

                      Certain property comprises a portion that is held to earn rental income or capital appreciation,
                      or for both, whilst the remaining portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods
                      and services or for administrative purposes. If the portion held for rental and/or capital
                      appreciation could be sold separately (or leased out separately as a finance lease), the Group
                      accounts for that portion as an investment property. If the portion held for rental and/or
                      capital appreciation could not be sold or leased out separately, it is classified as an investment
                      property only if an insignificant portion of the property is held for use in the production or
                      supply of goods and services or for administrative purposes. Management uses judgement
                      to determine whether any ancillary services are of such significance that a property does not
                      qualify as an investment property.

               (viii) Provision for employee termination benefits

                      The Group recognises a provision for employee termination benefits, when the Group has a
                      present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not
                      that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been
                      reliably estimated. The Group estimates the amount of provision based on a detailed plan
                      agreed between management and employee representatives.

                      In determining the provision for employee termination benefits, judgements and assumptions
                      are made by the Group in estimates the amount of provision based on the number of employees
                      expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the reporting date
                      are discounted to present value.

               (ix) Rebate liability

                      The Group participates in various promotional programmes with customers designed to
                      increase the sale of products. Among the programmes are arrangements under which rebates,
                      refunds, price concessions or similar items can be earned by customers for attaining agreed
                      upon sales levels, or for participating in specific marketing programmes. Those promotional
                      programmes do not give rise to a separate performance obligation. Where the consideration
                      the Group is entitled to varies because of such programmes, the amount payable is deemed
                      to be variable consideration. Management makes estimates on an ongoing basis for each
                      individual promotion to assess the value of the variable consideration based upon detailed
                      budget agreed between management and customers. The related accruals are recognised as
                      a deduction from revenue or in other expenses and are not considered distinct from the sale
                      of products to the customer.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

82
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

              The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
              financial statements.

              (a) Basis of consolidation

                     Consolidation

                     The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and
                     its subsidiaries as at the reporting date. The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the
                     preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as
                     the Company. Consistent accounting policies are applied for like transactions and events in similar
                     circumstances. The Company controls an investee if and only if the Company has all the following:

                     (i) Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant
                             power activities of the investee);

                     (ii) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and
                     (iii) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.

                     When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company
                     considers the following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are
                     sufficient to give it power over the investee:

                     (i) The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of
                             holdings of the other vote holders;

                     (ii) Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
                     (iii) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
                     (iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have,

                             the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made,
                             including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.

                     Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases
                     when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.

                     Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a
                     deficit balance.

                     Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing
                     control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of
                     the Group’s interest and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their
                     relative interests in the subsidiaries. The resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and
                     attributed to owners of the Company.

                     When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are
                     compared to the Group’s share of the net assets disposed. The difference together with the carrying
                     amount of allocated goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised
                     as gain or loss on disposal.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      83

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)

               Business combination

               Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an
               acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition
               date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The Group elects on
               a transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree
               either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction
               cost incurred are expensed and included in the profit or loss.

               Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at
               the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is
               deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit
               or loss or a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as
               equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances
               where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in
               accordance with the appropriate MFRS.

               When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
               appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
               circumstances and pertinent conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of
               embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.

               If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s
               previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date
               through profit or loss.

               Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred
               and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired
               and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary
               acquired, the difference is recognised in the profit or loss.

               After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
               For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the
               acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit
               from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned
               to those units.

               Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that
               unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying
               amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed in these
               circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion
               of the cash-generating unit retained.

               Subsidiaries

               In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at
               cost less impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal
               proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.

               Transactions eliminated on consolidation

               Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-
               group transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
               financial statements.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

84
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

     3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (b) Foreign currency

                     (i) Foreign currency transactions and balances

                             In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other
                             than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using
                             the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated
                             in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the
                             exchange rates on the reporting date. Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies
                             are not retranslated at the reporting date except for those that are measured at fair value are
                             retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was
                             determined.

                             Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of
                             monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences
                             arising on monetary items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.

                     (ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia

                             The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different
                             from the presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated
                             into RM as follows:-

                             • Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate
                                     prevailing at the reporting date;

                             • Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year,
                                     which approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

                             • All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.

                             Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when
                             control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.

                             On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect of
                             the subsidiary is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the
                             cumulative translation differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other
                             partial disposals.

              (c) Revenue and other income recognition

                     Revenue from contracts with customers

                     Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is
                     satisfied, i.e. when the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance
                     obligation is transferred to the customer.

                     A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct
                     goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to
                     the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business
                     practices.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      85

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (c) Revenue and other income recognition (cont’d)

               Revenue from contracts with customers (cont’d)

               Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
               in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts
               collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of
               consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar
               items, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the
               expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one
               performance obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation
               based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.

               The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
               amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the
               variable consideration is subsequently resolved.

               The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time.
               The control over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time
               if:

               - The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s
                      performance as the Group performs;

               - The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset
                      is created or enhanced; or

               - The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has
                      an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.

               Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time
               at which the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.

               Rebate liability

               A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable)
               from the customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to
               return to the customer. The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs
               its obligation under the contracts.

               The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and
               discounts are offset against amount payable by the customer. To estimate the variable consideration
               for the expected future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method.
               The Group then applies the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and
               recognises a refund liability for the expected future rebates.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

86
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (c) Revenue and other income recognition (cont’d)

                     Other income

                     Other income earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:

                     Interest income

                     Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.

                     Rental income

                     Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.

                     Wage subsidy

                     Government grant/assistance received from Government on wage subsidy is recognised on monthly
                     basis over the qualified period under the criteria set by the Government.

              (d) Employee benefits

                     Short term employee benefits

                     Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the
                     financial year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term
                     accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are
                     rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short
                     term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leaves are recognised when absences
                     occur.

                     The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
                     expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
                     reporting period.

                     Defined contribution plans

                     As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the national pension scheme, the
                     Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the
                     relevant state pension scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once
                     the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.

                     Defined benefit plan

                     The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately
                     for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for
                     their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present
                     value. Any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The
                     discount rate is the yield at the end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from
                     Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in the same currency in which the
                     benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using
                     the projected unit credit method.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      87

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (d) Employee benefits (cont’d)

               Defined benefit plan (cont’d)

               When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total
               of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the
               form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order
               to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding
               requirements that apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if
               it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.

               When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past
               service by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period
               until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is
               recognised immediately in profit or loss.

               The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans to equity
               in other comprehensive income in the period when they arise and all expenses related to defined
               benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.

               The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan
               when the curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting
               change in the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation
               and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been
               recognised.

               Termination benefit

               Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement
               date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The
               Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminate the
               employment of current employees according to a detailed plan without possibility of withdrawal;
               or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
               In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the measurement of termination
               benefits is based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due
               more than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to present value.

       (e) Borrowing costs

               Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are
               recognised in the profit or loss using the effective interest method.

               Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets
               that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are
               capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.

               The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
               expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that
               are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of
               borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare
               the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

               Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
               expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

88
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (f) Income taxes

                     Current tax

                     Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the
                     expected amount payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and
                     foreign operations, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any
                     adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the
                     related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.

                     Deferred tax

                     Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, on all temporary differences between the
                     carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases.
                     Deferred tax is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition
                     of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a
                     business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is
                     measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are realised
                     or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively
                     enacted by the reporting date.

                     Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary
                     differences relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it
                     is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.

                     Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no
                     longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
                     reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
                     that future taxable profit will be available for the assets to be utilised.

                     Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
                     loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other
                     comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is
                     adjusted against goodwill on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in
                     the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the
                     acquisition cost.

              (g)	Leases

                     As a lessee

                     The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
                     The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease
                     liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
                     initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset
                     or to restore the underlying asset or site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                          89

                                                                         Annual Report 2023

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                             (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(g)	Leases (cont’d)

As a lessee (cont’d)

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end
of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the right-of-use assets are determined as follows:

Leasehold land                               over the remaining lease period
Hostel rental                                                                    3 years
Factory rental
Motor vehicles                                                                 6.5 years
                                                                                 5 years

The right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are presented as a separate line in the statements of
financial position.

In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted
for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. The Group applies MFRS 136 to determine whether
a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment loss as described in
Note 3(p)(ii).

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the
commencement date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease payments
included in the measurement of the lease liability include fixed payments, any variable lease
payments, amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, and exercise price
under an extension option that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group
changes its assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.

Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised
on a straight-line basis as an expense in the profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease
term of 12 months or less.

As a lessor

Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to
ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on
a straight-line basis over the lease terms and is included in other income in profit or loss due to its
operating nature. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same
basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are
earned.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

90
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (h) Earnings per share

                     Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary
                     shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
                     during the financial year, adjusted for own shares held.

                     Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
                     and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year for the
                     effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and warrants.

              (i)	Property, plant and equipment

                     Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
                     impairment losses.

                     (i) Recognition and measurement

                             Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and
                             any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended
                             use, cost of replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected
                             cost for the decommissioning of the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets
                             also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are
                             capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and
                             maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

                             When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful
                             lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and
                             equipment.

                             Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
                             benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property,
                             plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the
                             carrying amount of the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.

                     (ii) Subsequent costs

                             The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
                             carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied
                             within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the
                             day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as
                             incurred.

                     (iii) Depreciation

                             Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of
                             individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the
                             remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                          91

                                                                         Annual Report 2023

                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                             (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(i)	Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)

(iii) Depreciation (cont’d)

Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated
useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following
annual rates:-

Buildings                                                                      2%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment                                5% - 20%
Furniture, fittings and office equipment                              5% - 20%
Motor vehicles
                                                                             20%

Land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period, and adjusted as appropriate.

Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until
they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these
property, plant and equipment.

(j) Capital work-in-progress

Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes
borrowing costs incurred during the period of construction.

No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the
cost will be transferred to property, plant and equipment.

(k) Investment properties

Investment properties are properties which are owned or held to earn rental income or for capital
appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production
or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

Investment properties are measured initially at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly
attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The cost of self-constructed investment
property includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other cost directly attributable to
bringing the investment property to a working condition for their intended use.

Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The depreciation rate for the building is 2% per
annum.

The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, annually.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

92
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (k) Investment properties (cont’d)

                     Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the
                     investment properties are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is
                     expected from its disposal. Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment
                     property are recognised in profit or loss in the financial period in which they arise.

                     Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use. For a
                     transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent
                     accounting is the carrying amount at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property
                     becomes an investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the
                     policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use.

              (l) Intangible assets

                     Goodwill

                     Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase
                     consideration and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
                     contingent liabilities in the subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.

                     Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
                     losses, if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when
                     indication of impairment exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent
                     periods.

                     Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the
                     computation of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated
                     statement of comprehensive income.

              (m) Inventories

                     Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

                     The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes
                     expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
                     existing location and condition.

                     Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for
                     as follows:

                     - cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a
                             weighted average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).

                     - cost of finished goods includes raw materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of
                             production overheads.

                     Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated
                     costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

              (n) Cash and cash equivalents

                     Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and on hand, fixed deposits with licensed banks
                     and short-term fund that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to
                     an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and
                     cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits, if any.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      93

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (o) Financial instruments

               (i) Initial recognition and measurement

                      A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when,
                      and only when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of
                      the instrument.

                      A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or
                      a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair
                      value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or
                      issuance. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at
                      the transaction price.

                      An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host
                      contract is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is
                      not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host
                      contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event
                      an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy
                      applicable to the nature of the host contract.

               (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement

                      The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:

                      Financial assets

                      Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
                      subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business
                      model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified
                      on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the business model.

                      Amortised cost

                      Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model
                      whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms
                      give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest
                      on the principal amount outstanding. The financial assets are not designated as fair value
                      through profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured
                      at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by
                      impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are
                      recognised in the profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the profit
                      or loss. Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying
                      amount except for credit impaired financial assets [see Note 3(p)(i)] where the effective
                      interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.

                      All financial assets are subject to impairment assessment [see Note 3(p)(i)].
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

94
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (o) Financial instruments (cont’d)

                     (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)

                             Financial liabilities

                             Amortised cost

                             Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
                             measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

                             Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss.
                             Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.

                     (iii) Offsetting

                             Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the
                             statements of financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently
                             has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a
                             net basis or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.

                     (iv) Financial guarantee contracts

                             A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
                             to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
                             when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

                             Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are
                             measured at higher of:

                             • the amount of the loss allowance; and

                             • the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
                                     recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
                                     Customers.

                             Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.

                     (v) Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets

                             A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
                             terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
                             convention in the market place concerned.

                             A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised, as applicable,
                             using trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:

                             (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date;
                                     and

                             (b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
                                     recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      95

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (o) Financial instruments (cont’d)

               (vi) Derecognition

                      A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights
                      to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or
                      substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred
                      to another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying
                      amount and the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any
                      new liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is
                      recognised in the profit or loss.

                      A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
                      in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability,
                      the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred
                      to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or
                      liabilities assumed, is recognised in the profit or loss.

       (p) Impairment

               (i) Financial assets

                      The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on
                      financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected
                      credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                      Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-

                      (i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible
                              within the 12 months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life
                              of the instrument is less than 12 months); or

                      (ii) Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over
                              the expected life of a financial instrument.

                      The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant
                      increase in credit risk.

                      Simplified approach – trade receivables

                      The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade
                      receivables as permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime
                      losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses
                      on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and
                      the Company’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the
                      debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the
                      forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where
                      applicable.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

96
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (p) Impairment (cont’d)

                     (i) Financial assets (cont’d)

                             General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts

                             The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other
                             financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to
                             be measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.

                             At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a
                             financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk
                             has increased significantly since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount
                             equal to lifetime ECLs. In assessing whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased
                             significantly since initial recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group and the Company
                             consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue
                             cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based
                             on the Group’s and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and
                             including forward looking information, where available.

                             If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of
                             the financial instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit
                             risk since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.

                             The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management
                             purposes when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the
                             Company in full, without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising
                             security (if any is held).

                             The Company considers a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of the
                             loan is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors of the subsidiaries in full, without
                             recourse by the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The Company
                             only apply a discount rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into account by
                             adjusting the expected cash shortfalls.

                             The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period
                             over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                             Credit impaired financial assets

                             At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
                             amortised cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events
                             that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have
                             occurred.

                             Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the
                             following events:

                             - Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
                             - A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than

                                     90 days past due);
                             - The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s

                                     financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would
                                     not otherwise consider (e.g. the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the
                                     Company on terms that the Group and the Company would not consider otherwise);
                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                      97

                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (p) Impairment (cont’d)

               (i) Financial assets (cont’d)

                      Credit impaired financial assets (cont’d)

                      Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the
                      following events: (cont’d)

                      - It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
                              reorganisation; or

                      - The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.

                      Write-off policy

                      The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the
                      extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
                      or the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that
                      could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However,
                      financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order
                      to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery of amounts due. Any
                      recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.

               (ii) Non-financial assets

                      The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end
                      of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any
                      such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

                      An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash- generating
                      unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the
                      profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss
                      is recognised directly against any revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the
                      impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset.
                      A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that
                      largely are independent from other assets and groups.

                      The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use
                      and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows
                      are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
                      assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

                      Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of
                      the impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable
                      amount is recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued
                      asset in which case it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted
                      by the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been
                      recognised for the asset in prior years.

                      An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.

                      An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the
                      subsidiary exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s
                      fair value less costs to sell and present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to
                      be derived from the investment including the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent
                      increase in recoverable amount is recognised in the profit or loss.
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

98
            Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      (CONT’D)

      3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

              (q) Equity instruments

                     An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group
                     and of the Company after deducting all of their liabilities.

                     (i) Ordinary shares

                             Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental
                             transaction costs. Ordinary shares are equity instruments. Dividends on ordinary shares are
                             recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.

                     (ii) Issuance expenses

                             Costs directly attributable to the issuance of instruments classified as equity are recognised
                             as a deduction from equity.

                     (iii) Warrants reserve

                             Rights Issue with Warrants

                             Total proceeds received by the Company arising from the Rights Issue with Warrants have
                             been allocated to two types of equity instruments i.e. share capital and warrants. Fair value of
                             Rights Issue and Warrants are adjusted for the apportionment of its relative fair value between
                             share capital and warrants. The amount allocated to warrant represents the relative fair value
                             of the warrant issued are credited to a warrants reserve which is non-distributable. Warrants
                             reserve is transferred to the share capital account upon the exercise of warrants and the
                             warrants reserve in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants period
                             will be transferred to other reserve.

              (r)	Provisions

                     A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present
                     legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of
                     economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting
                     the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
                     value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as
                     finance cost.

              (s)	Operating segments

                     An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it
                     may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions
                     with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed
                     regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the
                     Company, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its
                     performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
                                                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                        99

                                                                                       Annual Report 2023

                                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                           (CONT’D)

3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(t) Fair value measurements

Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.

For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to
another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as
far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
input used in the valuation technique as follows:

Level 1     : Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities tha

			 the Group can access at the measurement date.

Level 2 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
			 asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

Level 3 : Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.

4. REVENUE

       The Group sells a range of canned foods, drinks and biscuits. Revenue from sales of products are
       recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being the date when
       the customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.

       Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 30.

5. FINANCE COSTS

		                                                                    Group

					 2023                                                                   2022

					 RM                                                                     RM

Interest expense on:		

Bank overdrafts				                                         78,930     24,994
                                                           836,536    569,441
Bankers' acceptance				
                                                             26,149     29,179
Lease liabilities				                                       145,413    120,132
                                                           529,864    427,337
Revolving credit				

Term loans                   			

				                                                       1,616,892  1,171,083
100  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     6. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX

     Other than those disclosed in Note 5, (loss)/profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-

                                                                  Group                             Company

     		2023                                                              2022     2023              2022

     		RM                                                                RM       RM                         RM

     Auditors' remuneration:                         224,681          221,363          60,000          60,000
     - statutory audit		                              36,726           37,677            8,000           8,000
     - other services		
     Allowance for obsolete and                  5,446,445              37,102                   –               –
      slow-moving inventories		                       112,359                  –                 –               –
     Depreciation of investment properties		
     Depreciation of property,                     4,126,210       4,154,724                     –               –
      plant and equipment		                          418,388         475,654                     –               –
     Depreciation of right-of-use assets		                                              89,100            71,710
     Employee benefits expense (Note a)		        23,357,395       21,093,810
     Gain on disposal of property,                                                               –               –
      plant and equipment		                                    –   (389,920)                     –               –
     Gain on lease modification		                              –       (2,230)                   –               –
     Gain on lease termination		                               –       (5,526)
     Impairment loss on:                                                                         –  1,564,836
     - amounts due from subsidiaries		                         –               –  30,745,462        4,374,609
     - investments in subsidiaries		                           –               –
     - property, plant and equipment		           20,633,216          156,083                     –               –
     - trade receivables		                          548,859            31,466                    –               –
     - other receivables		                       2,788,009              75,361                   –               –
     Interest income		                               (149,217)       (59,385)                    –               –
     Provision for dismantling
      and relocation cost		                        360,000                     –                 –               –
     Reversal of impairment loss on:
     - trade receivables		                          (186,244)          (3,626)                   –               –
     - other receivables		                          (213,599)      (1,143,733)                   –               –
     Reversal of allowance for obsolete
      and slow-moving inventories		                    (6,493)       (563,116)                   –               -
     Realised loss/(gain) on
      foreign exchange, net		                           2,239         (53,671)                   –               –
     Rental income		                               (330,283)        (262,518)                    –               –
     Short-term lease and lease
      of low value assets:                          774,599          603,678                     –               –
     - premises		                                    210,277          139,985                    –               –
     - equipment		                                  423,394          433,548                    –                –
     Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		                    (292,200)                    –                –
     Wage subsidy (Note c) 		                                  –                                –                –
     Waiver of lease liabilities		                     (7,500)                 –               10                –
     Written off of investments in subsidiaries                                –
                                                               –
                                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                    101
                                                                     Annual Report 2023

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (CONT’D)

6. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (COnt’d)

Other than those disclosed in Note 5, (loss)/profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):-
(cont’d)

(a) Employees benefits expense comprise:-

                                                       Group                   Company

		2023                                                        2022  2023       2022

		RM                                                          RM    RM                  RM

Staff costs:                               1,697,930   1,289,945    89,100     71,710
Directors' remuneration (Note b)		                                          –         –
Salaries, wages, allowances                19,969,366 18,026,949            –         –
 and overtime		                                                             –         –
(Income)/expense from                      (702,676)   28,294               –         –
 defined benefit plan		                                                     –         –
Contributions to defined                    593,153    558,307
 contribution plan		                       899,622     884,105
Social security contributions		
Provision for employee                     900,000     306,210
 termination benefits

			 23,357,395 21,093,810                                           89,100     71,710

(b) Directors’ remuneration comprise:-

                                                       Group                   Company

		2023                                                        2022  2023       2022

		RM                                                          RM    RM                  RM

Directors of the Company:

Executive Directors

Salaries and other emoluments 		 1,228,335             903,660              –         –
                                                         54,264             –         –
Contributions to defined                                      676           –         –
                                                                            –         –
 contribution plan		                       72,108                   89,100     71,710
                                                                    89,100     71,710
Social security			

 contributions                             1,438

			                                        1,301,881   958,600
Non-executive Directors                    226,100      182,010
Fees and allowances		

			                                        1,527,981   1,140,610

Directors of the Subsidiaries:                161,854    143,057            –         –
Executive Directors                             8,095       6,278           –         –
Salaries and other emoluments		
Social security contributions                169,949     149,335            –         –

		                                         1,697,930   1,289,945    89,100     71,710

		

(c) Wage subsidy

       Represents grant received from the Malaysian Government in relation to wage subsidy for eligible
       employees.
102  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     7. TAX EXPENSE

     		                                                                                  Group

     				 2023                                                                                  2022

     				 RM                                                                                      RM

     Current income tax:                                                       985,538   923,154
     - Foreign tax				                                                           14,345           –
     Underprovision in prior year:
     - Malaysian tax				

     				                                                                      999,883   923,154

     Deferred tax (Note 22):		

     Reversal of temporary differences   			                                   (14,703)  (15,995)
                                                                               985,180   907,159
     Tax expense for the financial year  			

     Income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) of the estimated assessable
     results for the financial year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the
     respective jurisdictions.

     The reconciliation of the tax amount at statutory income tax rate to the Group’s and to the Company’s
     tax expense are as follows:

                                                                  Group                  Company

     		2023                                                              2022  2023             2022

     		RM                                                                RM    RM                 RM

     (Loss)/profit before tax  		 (43,413,945) 2,934,223 (31,127,458) (6,263,332)

     Tax at the Malaysian statutory             (10,419,300)      704,200 (7,470,600) (1,503,200)
      income tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%)		             (11,737)
     Effect of different tax                                      (65,700)     –                  –
      rate in other country		                        (95,929)
     Income not subject to tax 		                   1,677,541     (282,004)    –                  –
     Expenses not deductible                     9,820,260
      for tax purposes 		                                         715,363 7,470,600 1,503,200
     Deferred tax assets not                                   –
      recognised 		                                    14,345     538,600      –                  –
     Utilisation of previously
      unrecognised deferred tax assets		                          (703,300)    –                  –
     Underprovision in respect of prior years:
     - income tax                                                        –     –                  –

     Tax expense for the financial year         985,180           907,159      –                  –
                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                      103
                                                       Annual Report 2023

                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (CONT’D)

7. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (cont’d)

The Group has the following estimated unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available
for set-off against future taxable profits:-

		                                                                  Group

				 2023                                                                  2022

				 RM                                                                    RM

Unutilised tax losses				 37,883,744 27,506,693

Unabsorbed capital allowances   			 24,371,700 19,368,100

				 62,225,444 46,874,793

The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed
capital allowances carried forward.

The availability of the unutilised tax losses will be subject to Inland Revenue Board discretion and approval
to offset against future taxable profit. The unutilised tax losses of the Company and its subsidiaries in
Malaysia will be allowed to be carried forward for 10 consecutive years of assessment (“YA”) deemed to
be effective from YA 2019.

8. (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE

(a) Basic

Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit
after tax attributable to Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the financial year.

		                                                                  Group

				 2023                                                                  2022

				 RM                                                                    RM

Basic (loss)/earnings per share:                      (44,399,125)  2,027,064
(Loss)/profit after tax attributable to the Owners
 of the Company (RM)				

Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:

Number of ordinary shares at beginning

 of the financial year (unit)				                     493,252,936   493,252,936
                                                       137,390,087    36,962,106
Effect of rights issue with warrants 			
                                                      630,643,023   530,215,042
Weighted average number of ordinary shares

 at end of the financial year   			

Basic (loss)/earnings per share (sen) 			             (7.04)               0.38

(b) Diluted

       Diluted loss per share is not presented as the Warrants 2022/2027 were anti-dilutive in nature
       during the financial year, considering the average market price of the ordinary share was lower than
       the exercise price of the unexpired warrants as disclosed in Note 20(ii).
                                                                                                                                                           104

9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                                        NOTES TO THE              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Annual Report 2023
				Plant,                                                                 Furniture,
                                                                                                                                  (CONT’D)
				 machinery                                                             fittings		                      Capital
                                                                                                         work-in-
				 and factory                                                           and office     Motor          progress

		Land Buildings equipment                                                 equipment      vehicles               RM   Total
                                                                                                                        RM
		                                      RM       RM       RM               RM             RM

Group                                   15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066   6,027,809      1,496,466      1,430,397 126,903,009
2023                                        271,194 (335,949) (1,095,685)  2,389,180      2,021,793                  – 3,250,533
Cost
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously
Reclassification

At 1 July 2022, as restated             15,972,540 46,317,976 54,497,381   8,416,989      3,518,259      1,430,397 130,153,542
Additions                                                                    120,036                  –     74,800 1,673,746
Reclassification within property,       –        654,984  823,926
 plant and equipment                                                           18,000                 –
Reclassification from                   –        –        1,487,197                                      (1,505,197)  –
 right-of-use assets (Note 10)                                                         –     99,296
Reclassification to investment          –        –        –                                              –            99,296
 properties (Note 11)                                                                  –              –
Exchange differences                    – (6,249,366)               –            31,121      57,444      – (6,249,366)
                                                          369,594
                                        327,846  133,010                                                 –            919,015

At 30 June 2023                         16,300,386 40,856,604 57,178,098 8,586,146 3,674,999             – 126,596,233
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

				Plant,                                                                 Furniture,

				 machinery                                                             fittings		                   Capital
                                                                                                      work-in-
				 and factory                                                           and office  Motor          progress

		Land Buildings equipment                                                 equipment   vehicles               RM  Total
                                                                                                                    RM
		                                      RM           RM         RM         RM          RM

Group (cont’d)                          – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905                 793,140      – 46,369,747
2023 (cont’d)                                                                          1,976,597      – 3,250,533
Accumulated Depreciation                –            429,503 (590,282) 1,434,715
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously
Reclassification

At 1 July 2022, as restated             – 10,415,918 31,198,005 5,236,620              2,769,737      – 49,620,280
Charge for the financial year                                                           202,933       – 4,126,210
Reclassification from                   –            701,422 2,822,844     399,011
 right-of-use assets (Note 10)                                                            63,369
Reclassification to investment          –            –          –          –                          –           63,369
 properties (Note 11)                                                                              –
Exchange differences                    –            (631,435)  –                  –       51,497     –           (631,435)
                                                                           29,648
                                        –            55,488     252,554                               –           389,187

At 30 June 2023                         – 10,541,393 34,273,403 5,665,279 3,087,536                   – 53,567,611

Accumulated Impairment Loss                       –  –          –             156,083           –     –           156,083
At 1 July 2022                          939,743                            2,735,454   100,018
Charge for the financial year                        1,767,125 15,090,876                             – 20,633,216
                                        939,743                            2,891,537   100,018
At 30 June 2023                                      1,767,125 15,090,876                             – 20,789,299

Net Carrying Amount                     15,360,643 28,548,086   7,813,819  29,330      487,445        – 52,239,323                 NOTES TO THE
At 30 June 2023                                                                                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                             (CONT’D)                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                                                                      Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                                                                      105
                                                                                                                                                              106

9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)                                                                                                  NOTES TO THE              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                                                        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Annual Report 2023
				Plant,                                                                   Furniture,
                                                                                                                                     (CONT’D)
				 machinery                                                               fittings		                   Capital
                                                                                                        work-in-
				 and factory                                                             and office     Motor       progress

		Land Buildings equipment                                                   equipment      vehicles            RM      Total
                                                                                                                          RM
		                                 RM               RM           RM          RM             RM

Group (cont'd)                     15,483,682       47,163,144   51,315,544  5,618,959      1,516,807                –  121,098,136
2022                                             –       11,000  3,484,236    384,228          12,934   2,053,898        5,946,296
Cost                                             –                                       –
At 1 July 2021                                       (588,180)     (40,500)                  (161,645)               –    (790,325)
Additions                                        –                                 5,144
Disposals                                           –            618,357                    –           (623,501)       –
Reclassification within property,                –                                       –
 plant and equipment                   217,664             –              –      19,478     96,135      –               96,135
Reclassification from                               67,961       215,429                    32,235
 right-of-use assets (Note 10)                                                                          –               552,767
Exchange differences

At 30 June 2022                    15,701,346 46,653,925 55,593,066 6,027,809 1,496,466 1,430,397 126,903,009

Accumulated Depreciation           – 9,245,685 29,015,852 3,327,346                         614,294     – 42,203,177
At 1 July 2021                                                                              230,425     – 4,154,724
Charge for the financial year      –                803,862 2,663,825        456,612        (122,395)   – (250,244)
Disposals
Reclassification from              –                (95,688)     (32,161)    –                44,312
 right-of-use assets (Note 10)                                                               26,504
Exchange differences               –                –            –                  –                   –               44,312
                                                                             17,947         793,140
At 30 June 2022                    –                32,556       140,771                                –               217,778

                                   – 9,986,415 31,788,287 3,801,905                                     – 46,369,747
9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

				Plant,                                         Furniture,

				 machinery                                     fittings		                          Capital
                                                                                     work-in-
				 and factory                                   and office              Motor     progress

		Land Buildings equipment                         equipment               vehicles          RM  Total
                                                                                                   RM
		                             RM          RM  RM  RM                      RM

Group (cont’d)

2022 (cont’d)

Accumulated Impairment Loss							

At 1 July 2021                 –           –   –   –                       –         –           –

Charge for the financial year  –           –   –   156,083                 –         –           156,083

At 30 June 2022                –           –   –   156,083                 –         –           156,083

Net Carrying Amount							

At 30 June 2022                15,701,346 36,667,510 23,804,779 2,069,821  703,326 1,430,397 80,377,179

                                                                                                                NOTES TO THE              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                          (CONT’D)

                                                                                                                                   107
108  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

            (i) Assets pledged as security

                    As at 30 June 2023, certain land and buildings with net carrying amount of RM29,422,369 (2022:
                    RM31,196,945) are held as security with the banks for certain banking facilities granted to the Group
                    as disclosed in Note 21.

            (ii) Land in Indonesia

                    Land in Indonesia which is regulated under Hak Guna Bangunan (“HGB”) can be renewed indefinitely
                    with minimal cost if certain conditions are met. The Group assessed the conditions and concluded
                    that the possibility of non-renewal of the usage rights of the land is remote. Hence, the Group
                    exercised significant judgement and concluded that the land is in substance a purchase of rights
                    which meets the definition of property, plant and equipment regardless of whether the legal title
                    transfers.

            (iii) Transfer to investment properties

                    During the financial year, the Group transferred two buildings at net carrying amount of RM5,617,931,
                    which are held either to earn rental income or capital appreciation or for both to investment
                    properties as disclosed in Note 11.

            (iv) Impairment loss

                    The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each
                    reporting date to assess whether there is any indication of impairment. When an indication exists,
                    the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the
                    property, plant and equipment was derived based on fair value less cost to sell as well as VIU
                    method using cash flows projection derived from the most recent financial forecast and projections
                    approved by the Directors covering a period of 5 years.

                    Ceased of trading and manufacturing of biscuit business

                    2023

                    Two subsidiaries of the Company, Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd. (“Summit”) and Cinta Edar
                    (M) Sdn. Bhd. (“CEM”) have on 3 July 2022 ceased their business in manufacturing of biscuits and
                    related activities due to continuously loss making since prior years. Accordingly, the Group has
                    performed impairment assessment to estimate the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of
                    Summit comprised the manufacturing plant, machinery and factory equipment using fair value less
                    cost to disposal method based on a scrap value basis, which the scrap value of the manufacturing
                    plant, machinery and factory equipment was deemed to be its recoverable amount. As a result, the
                    Group recognised an impairment loss of RM1,129,750 (2022: RM156,083) in the “impairment loss
                    on non-financial assets” line item in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the
                    financial year ended 30 June 2023.

                    2022

                    In the previous financial year, the key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount
                    of Summit’s underlying assets are as follows:

                    (a) Budgeted gross margin

                           The budgeted gross margin is 22%. Gross margins are based on values achieved previously
                           preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained over
                           the budgeted period.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                   109
 Annual Report 2023

                NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                (CONT’D)

9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

       (iv) Impairment loss (cont’d)

               Ceased of trading and manufacturing of biscuit business (cont’d)

               2022 (cont’d)

               In the previous financial year, the key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount
               of Summit’s underlying assets are as follows: (cont’d)

               (b) Weighted average growth rate

                      The weighted average growth rate for business operations is 6%. Revenue growth is projected
                      based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as well
                      as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.

               (c) Pre-tax discount rate

                      A pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
                      amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of the
                      Company as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.

               Decommissioning of Bukit Minyak Production Facility

               2023

               Following the Company’s business rationalisation plan as disclosed in Note 34 to the financial
               statements, two subsidiaries of the Company, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd (“RCSB”) and Rex Trading
               Sdn. Bhd. (“RTSB”) have performed impairment loss assessment to determine the recoverable
               amounts of Bukit Minyak Production Facility and Batu Pahat Production Facility.

               The Group estimated the fair value less costs to sell of the manufacturing plant and equipment
               at Bukit Minyak Production Facility based on the scrap value of the plant, machinery and factory
               equipment as these assets will be highly probable to be disposed of to a third party supplier at
               scrap value of approximately RM600,000. For the leasehold land (as disclosed in Note 10) and
               building at Bukit Minyak Production Facility, there was no indication of impairment given that the
               indicative current market value was determined to be higher than the carrying amounts of these
               assets. The indicative current market value was estimated at RM48,000,000.

               The management estimated the recoverable amount for Batu Pahat Production Facility (including
               the land and building) based on higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal. Value
               in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows expected to be generated from the
               continuing use of Batu Pahat Production Facility and was based on the following key assumptions:

               (a) Budgeted gross margin

                      The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 18.5% to 21% depending on the type of products.
                      Gross margins are based on values achieved previously preceding the start of the budget
                      period and are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.

               (b) Annual revenue growth rate

                      The annual revenue growth rate for Batu Pahat Production Facility is 5%. Revenue growth is
                      based on growth achieved in the five years preceding the start of the budget period as well as
                      taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
110  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     9.	PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (cont’d)

            (iv) Impairment loss (cont’d)

                    Decommissioning of Bukit Minyak Production Facility (cont’d)

                    2023 (cont’d)

                    Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows expected to be generated
                    from the continuing use of Batu Pahat Production Facility and was based on the following key
                    assumptions: (cont’d)

                    (c) Pre-tax discount rate

                           A pre-tax discount rate of 8.7% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
                           amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of
                           capital.

                    The impairment review led to an impairment loss of RM19,503,466 (2022: Nil) being recognised in
                    the “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item in the statements of comprehensive income
                    of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

                    Following the recognition of an impairment loss on the manufacturing plant and equipment in Batu
                    Pahat Production Facility, the recoverable amount is now equal to the carrying amount. Therefore,
                    any adverse change in a key assumption may result in a further impairment loss.

                    The sensitivity of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in each of the key
                    input is as follows:

                    - A 0.5% increase in the discount rate used would have given rise to additional impairment loss
                           of RM588,000; or

                    - A 5% decrease in revenue would have given rise to additional impairment loss of RM1,179,000.
10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

		Leasehold                                                                  Hostel       Factory         Motor
                                                                             rental         rental     vehicles
		                                                           land                               RM                  Total
                                                                                 RM                           RM      RM
		                                                           RM

Group                                                        7,048,346       270,546      544,982      384,361      8,248,235
2023                                                                      –            –            –  398,425        398,425
Cost                                                                      –            –            –  (99,296)       (99,296)
At 1 July 2022                                                            –                         –                  (82,675)
Additions [Note (i)]                                                      –  (82,675)               –            –      33,473
Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 9)*                            –                 33,473
Expiry of lease contract                                                                  544,982
Exchange differences                                                           187,871

At 30 June 2023                                              7,048,346                                 716,963 8,498,162

Accumulated Depreciation					

At 1 July 2022                                               2,200,403       78,280       251,529      113,181 2,643,393

Charge for the financial year                                121,200         145,298      83,843       68,047       418,388

Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 9)*  –               –            –            (63,369)     (63,369)

Expiry of lease contract                                     –               (82,675)     –            –            (82,675)

Exchange differences                                         –               –            –            5,953        5,953

At 30 June 2023                                              2,321,603       140,903      335,372      123,812 2,921,690

Net Carrying Amount					

At 30 June 2023                                              4,726,743       46,968       209,610      593,151 5,576,472

                                                                                                                                                               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                                 111

                                                                                                                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                                                                                                       NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                 (CONT’D)
                                                                                                                                                                     112

10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)      Leasehold                              Hostel   Office         Factory         Motor    Total               NOTES TO THE              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                               land                          rental   rental            rental    vehicles      RM             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Annual Report 2023
		                                              RM                                                          RM
		                                                                               RM       RM                             RM                 (CONT’D)
		                                                                                                   544,982
                                      7,048,346       500,990                          403,995                 –  189,251     8,687,564
       Group (cont'd)                              –     82,675                                   –               283,147       365,822
       2022                                                                                                    –
       Cost                                        –             –                                –            –  (96,135)       (96,135)
       At 1 July 2021                              –    (313,119)                                 –            –           –     (313,119)
       Additions [Note (i)]                        –                                  (403,995)                –           –  (403,995)
       Reclassification to property,               –             –                                –
   plant and equipment (Note 9)*                                 –                                   544,982       8,098           8,098
       Lease modification             7,048,346                                                   –
       Lease termination                              270,546                                         167,686     384,361 8,248,235
       Exchange differences                                                                            83,843

       At 30 June 2022                                                                                         –
                                                                                                               –
Accumulated Depreciation               2,083,196       128,727                         84,166                  –   80,511     2,544,286
At 1 July 2021                             117,207     166,997                         33,667                  –  73,940        475,654
Charge for the financial year
Reclassification to property,                      –            –                              –      251,529     (44,312)     (44,312)
 plant and equipment (Note 9)*                     –  (217,444)                                –                           –  (217,444)
Lease modification                                 –                                  (117,833)      293,453               –   (117,833)
Lease termination                                  –            –                              –
Exchange differences                                            –                                                   3,042         3,042
                                      2,200,403                                                –
At 30 June 2022                                         78,280                                                    113,181 2,643,393

Net Carrying Amount                   4,847,943                              192,266  –                           271,180 5,604,842
At 30 June 2022

* Reclassification as a result of the full settlement of lease liabilities.
                                                                         REX INDUSTRY BERHAD            113
                                                                          Annual Report 2023

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (CONT’D)

10. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (cont’d)

(i) Acquisition of right-of-use assets are satisfied by the following:-

		                                                                                    Group

				 2023                                                                                    2022

				 RM                                                                                      RM

      Cash payments				                                                   89,896       85,043
                                                                         308,529      280,779
      Lease arrangement            			

           				                                                          398,425      365,822

(ii) The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as
       follows:-

                                                                                      Group

				 2023                                                                                    2022

				 RM                                                                                      RM

      Depreciation of right-of-use assets				                            418,388      475,654
                                                                                   –    (2,230)
      Gain on lease modification				                                               –    (5,526)
                                                                                         29,179
      Gain on lease termination				                                        26,149
                                                                         210,227      139,985
      Interest expense on lease liabilities				                          774,599      603,678
                                                                           (7,500)
      Lease of low value assets				                                                             –

      Short-term leases				

      Waiver of lease liabilities  			

11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

						 Group
						 2023
						 RM

Buildings

Cost

At 1 July 2022					                                                                                –
                                                                                      6,249,366
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 9)             		

At 30 June 2023                    				 6,249,366

Accumulated Depreciation

At 1 July 2022					                                                                               –
                                                                                         631,435
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 9)			                           112,359

Charge for the financial year      				                                                 743,794

At 30 June 2023                    				                                               5,505,572

Net Carrying Amount                				
At 30 June 2023
114  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (cont’d)

     (a) The fair value of the investment properties are as below:

     						 Group

     						 2023

     						 RM

     At fair value:

     Buildings                           				 5,700,000

     The fair value is determined by the Directors based on market values for similar properties in the
     same vicinity. The fair value of the investment properties is within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

     (b)		The entire investment properties of the Group have been pledged as security to secure term loan
            facilities of the Group as disclosed in Note 21.

     (c) Income and expenses derived from the above investment properties are as below:

     						 Group
     						 2023
     						 RM

     Lease income					                                                                   290,400

     Direct operating expenses:                                                               7,186
                                                                                             12,921
     - Quit rent and assessment					                                                        97,270

     - Insurance					

     - Term loans interest expense       				

     12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

     		Company

     					 2023                                                                          2022

     				 RM                                                                             RM

     Unquoted Shares, Cost                                          42,501,620 42,501,620
     At beginning of the financial year				
     Written off				                                                (268,013)            –

     At end of the financial year				 42,233,607 42,501,620

     Capital Contribution To Subsidiaries			                         51,221,633          51,221,633
     At beginning of the financial year				                         27,878,533                        –
     Addition (Note 17)				

     At end of the financial year				 79,100,166 51,221,633

     Accumulated Impairment Loss                                      8,842,612          4,468,003
     At beginning of the financial year				                         30,745,462           4,374,609
     Addition				
     Written off				                                                  (268,003)                       –

     At end of the financial year				 39,320,071                                         8,842,612

     Net Carrying Amount				 82,013,072 84,880,641
                                                                    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                      115
                                                                     Annual Report 2023

                                                                                   NOTES TO THE
                                                                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                   (CONT’D)

12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents amounts due from subsidiaries which are non-trade in
nature, unsecured and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future. As these amounts are in substance, represent additional investments in
the subsidiaries, they are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:

                                                 Effective equity
                                                       interest

Name of company           Country of             2023  2022        Principal activities
                        incorporation              %     %
Rex Canning Co.                                                    Manufacture and export of canned
 Sdn. Bhd.                  Malaysia             100   100          food and drinks

Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia                 100   100 Trading of canned food, drinks

                                                                    and confectioneries

Fika Foods Corporation  Malaysia                 100   100 Investment holding
 Sdn. Bhd.

Summit Teamtrade        Malaysia                 100   100 Manufacture of biscuit, ceased
 (2011) Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                    operation during the

                                                                    financial year

P.T. Rex Canning * #    Indonesia                100   100 Manufacture and export of

                                                                    canned food

Cinta Edar (M)          Malaysia                 100   100 Trading of manufactured biscuit,
 Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                    ceased operation during the

                                                                    financial year

Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd.     Malaysia                 100   100 Dormant

Best Aqua Food          Malaysia                 100   100 Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd.

Cinta Edar (Selatan)    Malaysia                 –     100 Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd. @

Fika Foods Marketing    Malaysia                 –     100 Dormant
 Sdn. Bhd. @

Gainasia International  British Virgin           100   100 Dormant

 Limited * ^            Islands

* Not audited by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
# Fika Food Corporation Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning.
^ The financial statements is reviewed for consolidation purposes by Moore Stephens Associates PLT.
@ The subsidiaries have been struck off with the Registrar pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies

       Act 2016 in the current financial year.
116  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

            Strike off of dormant subsidiaries

            During the financial year, the Company had written off the investment in two subsidiaries, Fika Foods
            Marketing Sdn. Bhd. and Cintar Edar (Selatan) Sdn. Bhd., as the said subsidiaries had been struck-off
            from the Registrar pursuant to Section 550 of the Companies Act 2016 and are accordingly dissolved.

            Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries

            As at the reporting date, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment
            in subsidiaries. An impairment loss amounting to RM30,745,462 (2022: RM4,374,609) was being
            recognised as “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item in the Company’s statement of
            comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

            As disclosed in Note 9 (iv), Summit and CEM have ceased their operations and became dormant. The
            recoverable amounts of the subsidiaries were derived based on fair value loss costs of disposal which
            were measured based on the net assets of the respective subsidiaries. The impairment review led to the
            recognition of an impairment loss of RM710,962 in profit or loss of the Company and included in the
            “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

            As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, as a result of the business rationalisation plan, the Company
            has carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its investment in subsidiaries. The recoverable
            amounts of these subsidiaries have been determined based on discounted cash flows projections from
            financial budgets approved by Board of Directors covering five years period. The impairment review led
            to the recognition of an impairment loss of RM30,034,500 in profit or loss of the Company and included
            in the “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.

            In determining the discounted cash flows projections, the key assumptions used are as follows:

            (a) Budgeted gross margin

                    The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 18.5% to 25% depending on the type of products.
                    Gross margins are based on values achieved previously preceding the start of the budget period
                    and are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.

            (b) Annual revenue growth rate

                    The annual revenue growth rate for business operations is 5%. Revenue growth is based on
                    growth achieved in the five years preceding the start of the budget period as well as taking into
                    consideration of future demand outlook.

            (c) Discount rate

                    A post-tax discount rate of 8.2% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
                    amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of capital.
                                                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                               117
                                                 Annual Report 2023

                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                (CONT’D)

12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

       Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)

       Following the recognition of an impairment loss on the investments in subsidiaries, the recoverable
       amount is now equal to the carrying amount. Therefore, any adverse change in a key assumption may
       result in a further impairment loss.

       The sensitivity of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in each of the key input is
       as follows:

       - A 0.5% increase in the discount rate used would have given rise to additional impairment loss of
               RM2,856,200; or

       - A 5% decrease in future planned revenues would have given rise to additional impairment loss of
               RM8,473,400.

       In the previous financial year, the Company carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its
       investment in certain subsidiaries due to their persistent loss-making and significant accumulated losses
       position. The recoverable amounts of the subsidiaries were derived based on fair value loss costs of
       disposal which were measured based on the net assets of respective subsidiaries. This has resulted in an
       impairment loss of RM4,374,609 being recognised as “impairment loss on non-financial assets” line item
       in the Company’s statement of comprehensive income for the financial year ended 30 June 2022.

13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION

				 2023                                                     Group
				 RM                                                                  2022
                                                                            RM
       Cost
       At beginning/end of the financial year				 11,378,743      11,378,743

Accumulated Impairment Loss                     (4,341,263) (4,341,263)
At beginning/end of the financial year				

Net Carrying Amount            			 7,037,480 7,037,480

Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill

Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-

				 2023                                                     Group
                                                                         2022
				 RM                                                                     RM

Indonesia manufacturing plant  			 7,037,480                      7,037,480

For the purpose of annual impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which
represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management
purposes.
118  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     13. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)

            Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill (cont’d)

            Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on fair value less cost of disposal
            method using future discounted cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU projected
            based on the financial budget for 2024 and projected revenue growth covering a period of 5 years.

            The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:

            (i) Budgeted gross margin

                    The budgeted average gross margin is 15% (2022: 15%). Gross margins are based on values achieved
                    previously preceding the start of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to be maintained
                    over the budgeted period.

            (ii) Weighted average growth rate

                    The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 5% (2022: 7%). Revenue growth is
                    projected based on growth achieved in the four years preceding the start of the budget period, as
                    well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.

            (iii) Discount rate

                    A post-tax discount rate of 9.3% (2022: 10.1%) was applied to the calculations in determining the
                    recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of
                    the Company as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.

            (iv) Terminal growth rate

                    A terminal growth rate of 2.5% (2022: nil) was then applied. Management believes that this terminal
                    growth rate was justified due to the long-term nature of the Indonesia manufacturing business.

                    Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
                    reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions utilised in assessing recoverable amounts
                    have been considered in determining the recoverable amounts of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity
                    analysis performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the
                    above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amounts of the unit to be materially below its
                    carrying amount.
                                               REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                          119
                                                Annual Report 2023

                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                         (CONT’D)

14. INVENTORIES

					 2023                                                       2022
				 RM                                                             RM

Cost:

Raw materials				                              23,808,075        21,826,500
                                               28,434,147        24,679,076
Manufactured inventories				                                      10,783,461
                                                  9,732,651
Packaging materials				                           1,587,866        1,895,774
                                                                       38,280
Spare parts and diesel				                                    –

Inventories in transit                   			

		                                       			 63,562,739 59,223,091

Less: Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories			

       At beginning of the financial year				  (906,154)         (1,787,209)
                                                                     (37,102)
       Addition				 (5,446,445)                                      563,116
                                                                    355,041
       Reversal				                            6,493

       Written off				                         828,949

       At end of the financial year      			   (5,517,157) (906,154)

Net Carrying Amount                      			 58,045,582 58,316,937

Inventories recognised in cost of sales  			 112,493,169 106,936,223

As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, as a result of the business rationalisation plan, the
management performed a review on obsolete and slow-moving inventories in conjunction with the
business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would lead to decommissioning of one
of the subsidiary’s production facilities subsequent to the financial year. The identification of obsolete
and slow-moving inventories based on considerations such as future demand and selling prices for
each products, quality concern and other factors. As a result, allowance for obsolete and slow-moving
inventories of RM339,114 and RM5,107,331 are provided to write down the carrying value of inventories
and are included in “changes in manufactured inventories” and “raw materials and consumables used”
line items respectively in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the financial year
ended 30 June 2023.

The Group had reversed the previously made slow moving inventories of RM6,493 (2022: RM563,116)
as the spare parts were being utilised in production during the year. The amount reversed has been
included in “other income” line item in the statements of comprehensive income of the Group for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022 respectively.
120  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     15. TRADE RECEIVABLES

     		                                                                            Group

     				 2023                                                                            2022

     				 RM                                                                              RM

     Trade receivables, gross            			 30,149,732 37,068,632

     Less: Allowance for impairment loss                              (2,659,837)  (2,720,062)
             At beginning of the financial year				                     (548,859)       (31,466)
             Additions				                                                186,244         3,626
             Reversal				                                              1,542,446        88,065
             Written off				

     At end of the financial year        			 (1,480,006) (2,659,837)

     Trade Receivables, Net              			 28,669,726 34,408,795

     The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2022: 30 to 90
     days). Other credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.

     Trade receivables amounted to RM9,470,097 (2022: RM8,745,048) is held as security for bankers’
     acceptance facilities as disclosed in Note 21.

     16.	OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                      Group                 Company

     		2023                                                  2022     2023                2022

                                   Note  RM                  RM       RM                  RM

     Sundry receivables, gross		         490,277 2,415,490            –                   –
     Less: Allowance for
                                         (1,467,395)  (2,535,767)     –                   –
              impairment loss             (325,799)        (75,361)
             At beginning of the            213,599                   –                   –
              financial year		            1,170,398     1,143,733
             Additions		                                           –  –                   –
             Reversal		
             Written off		                                            –                   –
             At end of the
              financial year		           (409,197) (1,467,395)        –                   –

     Sundry receivables,net		            81,080       948,095         –                   –
                                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD               121
                                                                       Annual Report 2023

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (CONT’D)

16.	OTHER RECEIVABLES (cont’d)

                                                       Group                    Company

		2023                                                        2022    2023      2022

                                Note  RM                      RM      RM                 RM

Deposits, gross

Less: Allowance for

 impairment loss                (i)     2,802,196      2,479,362      –                  –

At beginning of                                     –              –
                                      (2,267,000)                  –
 the financial year		                                                 –                  –
                                      (2,267,000)                  –
Additions		                                                           –                  –

At end of the

 financial year		                                                     –                  –

Deposits, net		                       535,196 2,479,362               –                  –

Prepayments, gross

Less: Allowance for

 impairment loss                (ii)  2,458,115        3,323,135      30,331    235,497
                                                                             –            –
At beginning of the                              –                –          –            –
                                      (195,210)                   –          –            –
 financial year		
                                      (195,210)                   –   30,331    235,497
Additions		                                                           30,331    235,497

At end of the

 financial year		

Prepayment, net		 2,262,905                            3,323,135

Other Receivables, Net 		             2,879,181 6,750,592

(i) Included in deposits, net of the Group are:

       (a) Deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to RM368,000 (2022: RM2,267,000);
               and

       (b) Non-interest bearing deposits placed with bank for bank guarantee facilities granted to the
               Group amounting to RM48,000 (2022: RM48,000).

(ii) Included in prepayments, net of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM955,103
       (2022: RM1,581,074).
122  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     17. AMOUNTS DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES

     		                                                                      Company

     				 2023                                                                             2022

     			Note                                                             RM                RM

     Amounts Due From Subsidiaries:                                (i)   1,564,836 13,731,050
     Non-trade, gross			

     Less: Allowance for impairment loss                                 (1,564,836)                  –
             At beginning of the financial year 				
             Additions				                                               – (1,564,836)

     At end of the financial year		          		 (1,564,836) (1,564,836)

     Amounts Due From Subsidiaries, Net		    		                          – 12,166,214

     Amounts Due To Subsidiaries:				

     Non-trade			                                                  (ii)  (3,132,323) (2,999,923)

     (i) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances to and are collectible on demand.

     (ii) These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advances from and are repayable on demand.

     The movement of amounts due from subsidiaries is as follows:

     		                                                                      Company

     				 2023                                                                             2022

     			                                                           Note  RM                RM

     At beginning of the financial year				                                 12,166,214       15,116,918
                                                                            15,712,319     (1,385,868)
     Advances to/(Repayment from)				                                    (27,878,533)
                                                                                                        –
     Capitalised as capital contribution by the Company		          12                   –  (1,564,836)

     Impairment loss during the financial year 			

     At end of the financial year  			                                   – 12,166,214

     18. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS

            The effective interest rates of the fixed deposit of the Group ranging from 2.80% to 3.84% (2022: 1.70%
            to 2.15%) per annum with maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2022: 3 to 6 months).
                                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                      123
                                                                      Annual Report 2023

                                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                         (CONT’D)

19. SHARE CAPITAL

		                                                       Group and Company

                           Number of shares                                      Amount

			2023                                                  2022        2023        2022

			Unit                                                  Unit        RM                   RM

Ordinary Shares                                   493,252,936        97,903,444 97,903,444
Issued And Fully Paid                                             –
At beginning of the financial year		 493,252,936                     15,813,236           –
Rights issue with warrants 		 164,417,645

At end of the financialyear		 657,670,581 493,252,936 113,716,680 97,903,444

During the financial year, the Company increased its issued and paid-up ordinary shares from
RM97,903,444 to RM113,716,680 pursuant to the the Rights Issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares
at an issue price of RM0.10 per Rights Share, on the basis of one Rights Share for every three existing
ordinary shares held, together with 54,805,755 free detachable warrants on the basis of one Warrant for
every three Rights Shares subscribed, net of issuance expenses of RM628,529.

The proceeds from the Rights Issue are for business expansion and working capital purposes. The
new ordinary shares issued during the financial year ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company.
All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regard to the
Company’s residual interests.

20. RESERVES

                                                  Group                          Company

		2023                                                   2022        2023        2022

                     Note  RM                            RM          RM                   RM

Non-distributable:   (i) (1,568,467) (3,667,102)                     –                    –
Translation reserve
Warrants reserve     (ii) 2,092,584                      –           2,092,584            –
Other reserve
                     (iii) (2,092,584)                   – (2,092,584)                    –

		                         (1,568,467) (3,667,102)                   –                    –

(i) Translation reserve

       The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
       statements of foreign subsidiary.

(ii) Warrants reserve

       Warrants 2022/2027

       During the financial year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”)
       pursuant to the Rights Issue with Warrants on the basis of one Rights Warrant for every three
       Rights Shares subscribed, and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for the
       Warrants on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022. The fair value
       of the Warrant was determined based on the fair value of warrants immediately upon the listing
       and quotation thereof as RM0.07 per warrant. The Rights Warrants are constituted by the Deed Poll
       dated 29 August 2022.
124  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     20. RESERVES (cont’d)

            (ii) Warrants reserve (cont’d)

                    Warrants 2022/2027 (cont’d)

                    The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows:

                    (i) Issue price

                           The Warrants will be issued at no cost to the Entitled Shareholders

                    (ii) Exercise price

                           Each Warrant entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe
                           for one new ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.15 per Warrant.

                    (iii) Exercise period

                           Five (5) years commencing on and including the date of issuance of the Warrants. Any
                           Warrants not exercised during the exercise period will thereafter lapse and cease to be valid.

                    (iv) Rights of Warrant holders

                           The holder of Warrants shall not be entitled to any voting rights or to participate in any
                           dividends, rights, allotments and/or other forms of distributions other than on winding-up,
                           compromise or arrangement of our Company and/or offer of further securities in the Company
                           until and unless such holders of the Warrants becomes a shareholder of the Company by
                           exercising their Warrants into new Ordinary Shares of the Company or unless otherwise
                           resolved by the Company in a general meeting.

                    (v) Ranking of new ordinary shares

                           The new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants will, upon
                           allotment and issuance, rank equally in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
                           Company except that such new ordinary shares will not be entitled to any dividends, rights,
                           allotments and/or any other forms of distribution where the entitlement date precedes the
                           relevant date of allotment and issuance of the new ordinary shares.

                    (vi) Adjustment in the exercise price and/or number of Warrants

                           The exercise price and/or the number of Warrants held by each Warrant holder may from time
                           to time be adjusted by the Directors in consultation with an approved adviser and certified by
                           the auditors at any time during the tenure of the Warrants.

                           As at 30 June 2023, total number of Warrants that remains unexercised were 54,805,755.

            (iii)	Other reserve

                    Other reserve represents the discount on issuance of shares and the value of which is represented
                    by the fair value of warrants. The other reserve, in substance, form part of the issued and paid-up
                    share capital and is presented separately for better understanding.
                                              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD             125
                                               Annual Report 2023

                                                 NOTES TO THE
                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                 (CONT’D)

21. BORROWINGS

		                                                          Group

				 2023                                                          2022

				 RM                                                            RM

Non-current                      			          8,178,974     9,272,106
Term loans (secured)

Current			                                      2,072,180     1,282,896
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				                  7,870,112  4,264,000
Bankers' acceptance - unsecured				            9,470,097     8,745,048
                                              3,000,000     3,000,000
                               - secured				     1,174,228
Revolving credit (unsecured)				                               1,240,121
Term loans (secured)				

				 23,586,617 18,532,065

				 31,765,591 27,804,171

Represented By:			                             9,353,202     10,512,227
Term loans				                                  2,072,180     1,282,896
Bank overdrafts				                           17,340,209    13,009,048
Bankers' acceptance				                       3,000,000     3,000,000
Revolving credit			
                                              31,765,591 27,804,171
        				

Maturity Profile of Borrowings:			

On demand or within 1 year				                23,586,617    18,532,065
                                              2,932,440      3,943,236
More than 1 year and less than 5 years				    5,246,534      5,328,870

More than 5 years                			          31,765,591     27,804,171

				

Term loans			

		                                                          Group
                                                                       2022
				 2023                                                                 RM

				 RM                                                          1,806,561
                                                                   593,529
Term loan 1(¹)				                            1,260,781            8,112,137

Term loan 2(¹)				                            423,938

Term loan 3(²)                   			 7,668,483

				 9,353,202 10,512,227

Maturity Profile of Term Loans:

Within one year				                             1,174,228     1,240,121
                                                1,239,151    1,292,326
More than 1 year and less than 2 years				    1,693,289     2,650,910
                                              5,246,534     5,328,870
More than 2 years and less than 5 years				
                                              9,353,202     10,512,227
More than 5 years                			

				

(¹) Conventional term loan
(²) Islamic term loan		
126  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     21. BORROWINGS (cont’d)

     Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:

     					 2023                                                                                        2022
     					%                                                                                                 %

     Bank overdrafts				                                  BLR* + 1.5 BLR* + 1.5

     Bankers' acceptance				                              3.41 to 6.50 4.02 to 4.50

     Revolving credit				                                                                 4.85         4.00

     Term loans:

     - Conventional				                                     BLR* - 1.5 BLR* - 1.5
                                                          BFR# - 1.25 BFR# - 1.25
     - Islamic		                               		

     * BLR - Base Lending Rate
     # BFR - Base Financing Rate

     Certain bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

     (i) land and buildings of the Group as disclosed in Notes 9 and 11;
     (ii) corporate guarantee by the Company; and
     (iii) proceeds from certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 15.

     22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

     		                                                                                         Group

     				 2023                                                                                         2022

     				 RM                                                                                             RM

     At beginning of the financial year				               1,491,888                             1,507,883
                                                            (14,703)                              (15,995)
     Recognised in profit or loss (Note 7)     			

     At end of the financial year              			        1,477,185                             1,491,888

     Presented before appropriate offsetting:

     - Deferred tax assets				                            (864,200) (4,040,541)
                                                          2,341,385 5,532,429
     - Deferred tax liabilities                			

     				                                                 1,477,185                             1,491,888

     This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as
     follows:

     		                                                                                         Group

     				 2023                                                                                         2022

     				 RM                                                                                             RM

     Deferred Tax Liabilities:                                        –                         3,082,241
     Difference between net carrying amount of property,
      plant and equipment and its tax base				                        –                           70,000
     Difference between net carrying amount of            2,341,385                             2,380,188
      right-of-use assets and lease liabilities				
     Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment			

     				                                                 2,341,385 5,532,429
                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                        127
                                                        Annual Report 2023

                                                       NOTES TO THE
                                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                       (CONT’D)

22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (cont’d)

		                                                                    Group

				 2023                                                                    2022

				 RM                                                                      RM

Deferred Tax Assets:                                    (118,800)                  –
Excess of tax base between the net carrying amount of              –     (54,668)
 property, plant and equipment				                                 –  (3,888,173)
Unutilised tax losses				                                                (97,700)
Unabsorbed capital allowance				                       (745,400)
Other deductible temporary differences*				

				                                                   (864,200) (4,040,541)

				                                                   1,477,185      1,491,888

* Comprised of allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and impairment loss on trade
       receivables.

The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the
financial statements are as follows:

		                                                                    Group

				 2023                                                                    2022

				 RM                                                                      RM

Unutilised tax losses				                              37,679,744     26,302,193
Unabsorbed capital allowances				                      24,371,700        757,200
Other deductible temporary differences 			             8,778,800
                                                                       3,057,100

				 70,830,244 30,116,493
128  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     23.	LEASE LIABILITIES

     			 Hostel                                             Factory     Motor
     			Rental
     			RM                                                  Rental	Vehicles            Total
                                                                                          RM
                                                            RM          RM
                                                                                   278,953
     Group                                      48,600      90,000      140,353    230,353
     2023                                                –  90,000      140,353    342,386
     Minimum Lease Payables                              –  45,000      297,386     851,692
     Within 1 year		                                                                (147,411)
     More than 1 year but less than 2 years		                                      704,281
     More than 2 years but less than 5 years		
                                                                                   226,342
     Less: Future finance		                     48,600      225,000     578,092    186,994
     lease charges                                 (448)       (6,215)  (140,748)  290,945
                                                                                   704,281
     Present Value of Lease Payables		          48,152      218,785     437,344
                                                                                   226,342
     Present Value of Lease Payables                                               477,939
                                                                                   704,281
     Within 1 year		                            48,152      86,088        92,102
                                                                          99,012
     More than 1 year but less than 2 years		   –           87,982
                                                                        246,230
     More than 2 years but less				

     than 5 years                               –           44,715

     Present Value of Lease Payables            48,152      218,785     437,344

     Analysed As:                               48,152      86,088        92,102
     Current portion		                                 –    132,697     345,242
     Non-current portion

     		                                         48,152      218,785     437,344
                                                                     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                         129
                                                                      Annual Report 2023

                                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                                        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                        (CONT’D)

23.	LEASE LIABILITIES (cont’d)

			 Hostel                                              Factory      Motor
			Rental
			RM                                                   Rental	Vehicles            Total
                                                                                      RM
                                                        RM           RM
                                                                               292,683
Group                                                                           189,188
2022                                                                           185,588
Minimum Lease Payables                                                          54,803
                                                                               722,262
Within 1 year		                            148,400      90,000        54,283
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		    48,600      90,000       50,588
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		               135,000      50,588
More than 5 years                                    –               54,803
                                                     –            –
                                                                     210,262
			                                        197,000      315,000

Less: Future finance lease charges           (3,210)     (11,982)    (43,923)   (59,115)
Present Value of Lease Payables		          193,790      303,018      166,339   663,147

Present Value of Lease Payables            145,638       84,233       43,189   273,060
Within 1 year		                              48,152      86,087      39,940      174,179
More than 1 year but less than 2 years		            –   132,698      39,940     172,638
More than 2 years but less than 5 years		           –                 43,270     43,270
More than 5 years                                                 –
                                           193,790                   166,339    663,147
Present Value of Lease Payables                         303,018

Analysed As:                               145,638       84,233       43,189   273,060
Current portion		                            48,152     218,785      123,150   390,087
Non-current portion
                                           193,790      303,018      166,339    663,147
        		

The range of effective interest rates per annum at the reporting date for the lease liabilities are as follows:

				 Hostel                                                          Factory   Motor
				 Rental
				%                                                                Rental	Vehicles

                                                                     %         %

Group                                                   2.25         2.20 4.96 - 6.38
2023
Effective interest rate			

2022                                                    2.25         2.20 4.68 - 4.96
Effective interest rate			

24. TRADE PAYABLES

       The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days
       (2022: 30 to 90 days).
130  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     25.	OTHER PAYABLES

                                                             Group                    Company

     		2023                                                         2022     2023     2022

                                     Note                RM         RM       RM                RM

     Sundry payables                 (i) 3,551,446 5,020,346                 54,081   179,498
                                                                             73,502    75,874
     Accruals		 5,836,451 4,018,329

     Provision for dismantling

      and relocation cost            (ii)   360,000                 –        –                 –

     Provision for employee				

      termination benefits           (iii)  900,000          306,210         –                 –

     Retirement benefits             (iv)   1,771,797 2,720,305              –                 –

     Amounts due to Directors        (v) 4,295,838 8,603,808                 –                 –

     Amounts due to related parties  (v)    893,665          605,056         –                 –

     		                                     17,609,197 21,274,054            127,583  255,372

     (i) Sundry payables

     Included in other payables of the Group is security deposits received from customers of RM150,000
     (2022: RM150,000).

     (ii) Provision for dismantling and relocation cost

     As disclosed in Notes Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, the Group recognised a provision of
     RM360,000 for dismantling and relocation and are based on management’s estimation.

     Movement in provision for dismantling and relocation cost is as below:

     						 Group
     						 2023
     						 RM

     At beginning of the financial year					                                                     –
                                                                                      360,000
     Additions                              				

     At end of the financial year           				                                      360,000

     (iii) Provision for employee termination benefits

           As disclosed in Note 9 (iv) and 34 respectively, the Group recognised a provision of RM900,000 for
           employee termination benefits and are based on a detailed plan agreed between the management
           and employees. The payments are expected to be made in July 2023 and August 2023.

           In the previous financial year, two of its subsidiaries, Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn. Bhd. and Cinta
           Edar (M) Sdn. Bhd. have announced to cease its operations for manufacturing of biscuit and trading
           of manufactured biscuit, respectively. As such, the Group has recognised a provision of RM306,210
           for employee termination benefits and is based on a detailed plan agreed between the management
           and employees. The payments have been made in July 2022.
                                                                      REX INDUSTRY BERHAD               131
                                                                       Annual Report 2023

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                              (CONT’D)

25.	OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

(iii) Provision for employee termination benefits

Movement of provision for employee termination benefits is as below:

		                                                                                 Group

				 2023                                                                                 2022

				 RM                                                                                   RM

At beginning of the financial year				                                 306,210               –
Additions				                                                         900,000      306,210
Payment during the financial year 			                                 (306,210)
                                                                                             –

At end of the financial year  			                                     900,000      306,210

(iv) Retirement benefits

A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit
plans that provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for
employees.

		                                                                                 Group

				 2023                                                                                 2022

				 RM                                                                                   RM

Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations

At beginning of the financial year				                                2,720,305    2,601,218
                                                                         283,153     313,730
Current service cost and interest				
                                                                       (901,463)   (285,436)
Past service cost				                                                    (84,366)             –
                                                                        (335,128)             –
Other cost				                                                            89,296
                                                                                      90,793
Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income		

Exchange differences          			

At end of the financial year  			                                     1,771,797 2,720,305

(Income)/expense recognised in profit or loss

		                                                                                 Group

				 2023                                                                                 2022

				 RM                                                                                   RM

Current service cost and interest				                                   283,153      313,730
                                                                      (901,463)    (285,436)
Past service cost				                                                  (84,366)
                                                                                              –
Other cost                    			

				                                                                  (702,676)    28,294

The (income)/expense is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive

income:-

		                                                                                 Group

				 2023                                                                                 2022

				 RM                                                                                   RM

Staff costs                   			                                     (702,676)    28,294
132  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     25.	OTHER PAYABLES (cont’d)

     (iv) Retirement benefits (cont’d)

     Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income

     		                                                                           Group

     				 2023                                                                           2022

     				 RM                                                                             RM

     At beginning of the year				                                      706,800    706,800
                                                                        335,128              –
     Recognised during the year                  			

     At end of the year                          			                   1,041,928  706,800

     Actuarial assumptions

     		                                                                           Group

     				 2023                                                                           2022

     				 RM                                                                             RM

     Discount rate                                                     6.79                7.22
                                                                                             7.0
     Salary increment rate                                             7.0                  5.0

     Disability rate                                                   5.0         15% up to
                                                                                  the age of
     Resignation rate
                                                                                       30 and
     20 - 30				 15% up to                                                          decrease
                                                                                  linearly to
     31 - 40 				 the age of
                                                                                         0% at
     41 - 45				                                                       30 and     retirement

     46 - 50				                                                       decrease             age

     51 - 54				 linearly to

     > 55 					                                                        0% at

     					 retirement

     					 age

     (v) These amounts are non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest free advances which are repayable on
            demand.

     26. REBATE LIABILITY

            Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset
            against amounts payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.

     27. DIVIDEND

     					                                                                            2022
     		Paid on                                                                           RM

     Recognised during the financial year:       9 November 2021                  986,505
     First interim single tier dividend for the
      financial year ended 30 June 2021
      of RM0.002 per ordinary share
                                              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                            133
                                               Annual Report 2023

                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                         (CONT’D)

28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES

Identity of related parties

For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and to
the Company if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or
exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or
where the Group and the Company and the party are subject to common control or common significant
influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.

The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties and
key management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the Company
have substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.

Related party balances and transactions

The related party balances are shown in Notes 17 and 25 respectively. The related party transactions of
the Group and of the Company are shown below:

		                                            Company

				 2023                                                    2022

				 RM                                                      RM

Transactions with subsidiaries:

Advances from				                                132,400        36,605
                                              (15,712,319)   1,385,868
(Advance to)/repayment from              			

Transactions with related parties:		                      –       3,600
Deposit paid for lease of office				             93,600        68,400
Short-term lease of office				                    41,867         33,272
Purchase of goods				                          (36,000)       (36,000)
Rental income				                             5,150,087      4,771,924
Transportation charges				                       59,840         23,524
Travelling expenses				                           76,773         95,961
Upkeep of motor vehicles				
Water charges				                                      312           156
Warehouse management				                       272,000        254,400

Compensation of key management personnel

Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The
key management personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as
certain senior management personnel of the Group and of the Company.

The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to the Directors during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 6(b).
134  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     28. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (cont’d)

     Compensation of key management personnel (cont’d)

     The remuneration of other members of key management personnel of the Group and the Company
     during the financial year are as follows:

     		                                                                                  Group

     				 2023                                                                                  2022

     				 RM                                                                                      RM

     Key management personnel:

     Salaries and other emoluments				                                 1,075,102         801,669
                                                                         43,056           30,708
     Contributions to defined contribution plan				                      23,604            15,948

     Social security contributions  			

     					                                                             1,141,762         848,325

     29. CAPITAL COMMITMENT

     		                                                                                  Group
                                                                                                    2022
     				 2023                                                                                         RM

     				 RM                                                                                 2,267,000

     Authorised and contracted for:		

     Acquisition of machineries     			                                368,000

     30.	OPERATING SEGMENTS

     The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and
     distribution of canned food, drinks and biscuits. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief Operating
     Decision Maker) reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly basis.
     Accordingly, information by operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is not
     presented.

     Geographical area

     Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and
     assets respectively are as follows:

                                                        Group                            Company

                                               External revenue        Non-current assets*

     		2023                                                    2022    2023                     2022

     		RM                                                      RM      RM                         RM

     Malaysia		                     65,943,221          68,458,551     54,253,834        78,048,550
     USA			                         70,370,989          71,804,940                    –                 –
     Europe		                                                                         –                 –
     Asia (excludes Malaysia)        19,730,196            14,211,281
                                     6,363,684           6,636,255       16,105,013       14,970,951

     		 162,408,090 161,111,027 70,358,847 93,019,501

     * Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred
            tax assets.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                      135
 Annual Report 2023

                NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                (CONT’D)

30.	OPERATING SEGMENTS (cont’d)

       Major customer information

       The Group has one (2022: one) customer which contributed RM23,754,284 (2022: RM28,275,861),
       representing 15% (2022: 18%) of the Group’s revenue during the financial year.

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       Categories of Financial Instruments

       The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets (excluding prepayments) and financial liabilities are all
       categorised as amortised costs.

       Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies

       The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks which including credit risk, interest rate
       risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses
       on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the
       Group’s financial performance.

       Risk management is integral to the whole business of the Group. Management continually monitors the
       Group’s risk management process to ensure that an appropriate balance between risk and control is
       achieved. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in the market
       conditions and the Group’s activities.

       There have been no changes to the Group’s exposure to these financial risks or the manner in which it
       manages and measures the risk.

       (a) Credit risk

               Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
               to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the
               individual characteristics of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
               from loans and advances to subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior
               years.

               Trade receivables

               Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

               Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing
               basis. Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations to business
               partners with good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit
               over a certain amount.

               At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit impaired.

               The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or full)
               when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group determines
               that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows
               to repay the amounts subject to write-off.

               Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.

               There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.
136  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

            Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

            (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

                    Trade receivables (cont’d)

                    Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                    As the Group does not hold any collateral other than as disclosed in Note 25(i), the maximum
                    exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of the financial assets as at the end
                    of the reporting period.

                    Credit risk concentration profile

                    The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on
                    an ongoing basis.

                    The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 2 customers
                    (2022: 5 customers) constituting 17% (2022: 36%) of gross trade receivables of the Group.

                    Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                    In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate
                    actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to ensure
                    that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable values.

                    The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at lifetime
                    expected credit losses as disclosed in Note 3(p)(i). The Group assesses impairment of trade
                    receivables on individual and collective basis.

                    For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can be
                    individually managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has reasonable
                    and supportable information available to assess the impairment individually.

                    For collective assessment, the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision
                    matrix for collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit risk
                    characteristics, the number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have similar risk
                    characteristics.

                    Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable
                    progressing through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit loss
                    experienced over the prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information on
                    macroeconomic factors. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic conditions
                    during the period over which the historical data has been collected, (b) current economic conditions
                    and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables.
                                                                         REX INDUSTRY BERHAD          137
                                                                          Annual Report 2023

                                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONT’D)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(a) Credit risk (cont’d)

Trade receivables (cont’d)

Impairment losses

The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables as at 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022:

				 Gross

				 carrying	Loss                                                                               Net
                                                                                          balance
				 amount allowances
                                                                                                 RM
				RM                                                                   RM
                                                                                      25,079,665
Group

2023

Not past due                        		 25,159,340                        (79,675)

Past due:                                                   2,195,232     (73,835)    2,121,397
- Less than 30 days			                                      906,630      (228,533)    678,097
- 31 to 90 days			
Credit impaired:                                             968,942     (178,375)    790,567
- More than 90 days			

				                                                        4,070,804    (480,743) 3,590,061
Credit impaired:                                                919,588
- Individually impaired		                                                (919,588)    –

      			 30,149,732                                                     (1,480,006) 28,669,726

2022                                		 19,958,039                        (234,924) 19,723,115
Not past due

Past due:                                                    5,733,277   (182,750)    5,550,527
- Less than 30 days			                                      5,894,249    (311,826)    5,582,423
- 31 to 90 days			
Credit impaired:                                            4,284,350    (862,701)    3,421,649
- More than 90 days			

				                                                        15,911,876   (1,357,277) 14,554,599
Credit impaired:                                              1,198,717
- Individually impaired			                                               (1,067,636)  131,081

		                                  		 37,068,632                        (2,659,837) 34,408,795

Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired

Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with good
payment records and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with the Group.
138  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

            Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

            (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

                    Impairment losses (cont’d)

                    Receivables that are past due but not impaired

                    The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as there
                    have been no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still considered
                    recoverable. These trade receivables relate mostly to customers with slower repayment patterns,
                    for whom there is no history of default. The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit
                    enhancement over these balances.

                    Credit impaired

                    Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to have
                    higher credit risk, are monitored individually.

                    Trade receivables that are collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date relate to
                    debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These receivables are not
                    secured by any collateral or credit enhancements.

                    Inter-company loans and advances

                    Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                    The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors
                    the abilities of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.

                    Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                    As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from
                    subsidiaries are represented by their carrying amounts in the notes to the financial statements.
                    Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other credit
                    enhancements.

                    Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                    Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on demand,
                    expected credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan is demanded
                    at the reporting date.

                    Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The
                    Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’ financial
                    positions deteriorate significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of
                    subsidiaries’ loans and advances when they are payable, the Company considers the subsidiaries’
                    loans or advances to be credit impaired when subsidiaries are unlikely to repay the loan or advances
                    to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid resources when the loans are demanded.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                                                     139
 Annual Report 2023

                NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                (CONT’D)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

       Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

       (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

               Inter-company loans and advances (cont’d)

               The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually using
               internal information available.

               As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk
               given the subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high
               probability of default for the loans and advances to subsidiaries. As a result, the Company has
               provided allowances for ECLs on amounts due from subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 17.

               Other receivables

               Expected credit loss of other receivables is determined individually after considering the financial
               strength of the other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure
               to credit risks is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position. The
               Group has provided allowances for expected credit losses on certain of these amounts as disclosed
               in Note 16.

               Credit risk on sundry deposits mainly arose from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities
               deposit for rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services
               and thus have low credit risks. As at end of the reporting period, no allowance for impairment is
               necessary in respect of these deposits.

               The Group determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk on certain deposits paid
               to supplier as a partial advance payment to purchase plant and machineries. Given the Group’s
               financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to high probability of default for
               remaining payment to supplier. As a result, the Group has provided allowances for impairment in
               respect of these deposits as disclosed in Note 16.

               Cash and cash equivalents

               The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the reporting date,
               the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements
               of financial position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Hence, a loss
               allowance is not necessary.

               Financial guarantees

               Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

               The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted
               to subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and
               repayments made by the subsidiaries.

               Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

               The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM25,727,633 (2022:
               RM27,804,171) representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end of the
               reporting period. The financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the subsidiaries’
               banking facilities.
140  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

     (a) Credit risk (cont’d)

     Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

     The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
     financial positions deteriorate significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be
     credit impaired when:-

     - The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
     - The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.

     The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using
     internal information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the probability
     of the financial guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as the borrowings of
     the subsidiaries are adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 21. Should the subsidiaries
     defaulted any loan repayments, the proceeds from the realisation of assets will be able to satisfy
     the outstanding debts.

     (b) Foreign currency risk

     Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
     fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.

     The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
     currencies other than the functional currency of the Group entities, which is RM as disclosed in
     Note 2(c). The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”), Euro
     (“EUR”) and Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”).

     The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign
     purchases as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.

     Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group
     entities are kept to an acceptable level.

     Exposure to foreign currency risk

     The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional
     currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period is
     as follows:

     			                                             Denominated in

     			 USD                                                     EUR  IDR  Total

     			RM                                                       RM   RM   RM

     Group

     2023

     Trade receivables		 11,744,651                              –    –    11,744,651

     Other receivables		                 259,841                 –    –    259,841

     Cash and bank balances		 1,445,567                          –    –    1,445,567

     Trade payables		 (7,820,158)                                –    – (7,820,158)

     Other payables		                    (16,390)                –    –    (16,390)

     Borrowings                          (9,470,097)             –    – (9,470,097)

           		 (3,856,586)                                        –    – (3,856,586)
                                                                        REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                       141
                                                                         Annual Report 2023

                                                                            NOTES TO THE
                                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                            (CONT’D)

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(b) Foreign currency risk (cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)

			                                         Denominated in

			 USD                                                     EUR         IDR               Total

			RM                                                       RM          RM                RM

Group                               14,250,304                       –          –  14,250,304
2022                                    763,963             108,933     39,479          912,375
Trade receivables		
Other receivables		                   1,729,389                      –          –    1,729,389
Cash and bank balances		             (8,942,129)                     –          –   (8,942,129)
Trade payables		                    (8,745,048)                      –          –  (8,745,048)
Borrowings
                                                                        39,479        (795,109)
		                                          (943,521)       108,933

The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign
currencies as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:

		                                                                                 Group

		                                                                      Increase/(Decrease)

					 2023                                                                                2022

					 RM                                                                                  RM

Effect on results after tax/equity:		                                    146,550    35,854
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			                               (146,550)  (35,854)

              - Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%)			

RM/EUR - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			                               –                 (4,139)
              - Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%)			
                                                                        –                 4,139

RM/IDR - Strengthened by 5% (2022: 5%)			                               –                 (1,500)

- Weakened by 5% (2022: 5%)                 		                          –                 1,500

(c) Interest rate risk

       Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will
       fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk
       arises mainly from interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.

       In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective
       interest rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed
       in Notes 18, 21 and 23 respectively.
142  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

     Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

     (c) Interest rate risk (cont’d)

     Exposure to interest rate risk

     The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
     carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

     		                                                                     Group

     				 2023                                                                     2022

     				 RM                                                                       RM

     Fixed rate instruments                                      936,589    900,000
     Financial asset:
     - Fixed deposits with licensed banks				

     Financial liabilities:		

     - Lease liabilities				                                     (704,281)  (663,147)

     - Bankers’ acceptance				                                   (17,340,209) (13,009,048)

     - Revolving credit                       			                (3,000,000) (3,000,000)

     					 (20,107,901) (15,772,195)

     		                                                                     Group

     				 2023                                                                     2022

     				 RM                                                                       RM

     Floating rate instruments                                   (2,072,180) (1,282,896)
     Financial liabilities:                                      (9,353,202) (10,512,227)
     - Bank overdrafts				
     - Term loans			

     					 (11,425,382) (11,795,123)

     Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

     The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably
     possible change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables
     held constant:-

     		                                                                     Group

     		                                                          Increase/(Decrease)

     					 2023                                                                    2022

     					 RM                                                                      RM

     Effect on results after tax/equity:                         (43,416)   (44,821)
     Increase of 50 basis points (2022: 50 basis points)			       43,416     44,821
     Decrease of 50 basis points (2022: 50 basis points) 		
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)

Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)

(d)	Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations associated with
financial liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of
financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s objective are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and
flexibility through use of stand-by credit facilities.

The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and
the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. In addition, the Group and the
Company maintain sufficient levels of cash and available banking facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet
their working capital requirements.

The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting
period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating,
based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):

		                                                                           Contractual Cash Flows

			On demand

		                                  Carrying or within			 More than

		                                  amount                      1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years             5 years         Total
                                                                                                                             RM
		                                                          RM  RM           RM            RM              RM

2023                                  2,072,180                   2,072,180             –               –               –    2,072,180            NOTES TO THE
Group                               17,340,209                  17,340,209              –               –               –  17,340,209          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Bank overdrafts                     3,000,000                   3,000,000               –               –               –  3,000,000
Bankers’ acceptance                  9,353,202                               1,660,716     2,703,667       6,409,827       12,434,926       (CONT’D)
Revolving credit                    20,010,259                    1,660,716             –               –               –  20,010,259
Term loans                          15,837,400                  20,010,259              –               –               –  15,837,400
Trade payables                                                  15,837,400    230,353        342,386                    –
Other payables^                         704,281                                                                                 851,692
Lease liabilities                                                   278,953

                                    68,317,531 60,199,717 1,891,069 3,046,053 6,409,827 71,546,666                                                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2023
Company                                                     – 25,727,633     –             –               – 25,727,633
Financial guarantee*
Other payables                      127,583                     127,583      –             –               –               127,583
Amounts due to subsidiaries
                                    3,336,323 3,336,323                      –             –               – 3,336,323

                                    3,463,906 29,191,539                     –             –               – 29,191,539

                                                                                                                                                                     143
                                                                                                                                                                     144

31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (cont’d)                                                                                                                NOTES TO THE              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
                                                                                                                                               FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Annual Report 2023
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies (cont’d)
                                                                                                                                            (CONT’D)
(d)	Liquidity risk

The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the reporting
period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating,
based on the rates at the end of the reporting period): (cont’d)

		                                                                            Contractual Cash Flows

			On demand

		                                  Carrying or within			 More than

		                                  amount                      1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years             5 years        Total
                                                                                                                            RM
		                                                          RM  RM            RM            RM             RM

2022                                  1,282,896                   1,282,896              –              –              –    1,282,896
Group                               13,009,048                  13,009,048               –              –              –  13,009,048
Bank overdrafts                     3,000,000                   3,000,000                –              –              –  3,000,000
Bankers’ acceptance                                                           1,660,716     3,475,379      6,220,316
Revolving credit                     10,512,227                    1,660,716             –              –              –     13,017,127
Term loans                          19,823,659                  19,823,659               –              –              –  19,823,659
Trade payables                       18,553,749                  18,553,749      189,188       185,588        54,803       18,553,749
Other payables^
Lease liabilities                        663,147                    292,683                                                   722,262

                                    66,844,726 57,622,751 1,849,904 3,660,967                              6,275,119 69,408,741

Company                                                     – 27,804,171      –             –              – 27,804,171
Financial guarantee*
Other payables                      255,372                     255,372       –             –              –              255,372
Amounts due to subsidiaries
                                    2,999,923 2,999,923                       –             –              – 2,999,923

                                    3,255,295 31,059,466                      –             –              – 31,059,466

^ Excluded for retirement benefits.
* This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
                                          REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                        145
                                           Annual Report 2023

                                             NOTES TO THE
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                             (CONT’D)

32. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION

       Financial instruments at fair value

       As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any
       valuation method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.

       Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value

       Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable
       approximation of fair values

       The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
       term borrowings approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
       instruments and insignificant impact of discounting.

       The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be
       re-priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date.

33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-
equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances and fixed deposits with
licensed banks whilst total capital is equity attributable to Owners of the Company.

The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022, which are within the Group’s objective of capital
management are as follows:

		                                                      Group

				 2023                                                      2022

				 RM                                                        RM

Borrowings (Note 21)				                  31,765,591    27,804,171
                                             704,281       663,147
Lease liabilities (Note 23)  			

					 32,469,872 28,467,318

Less:			                                  (17,427,480)  (7,890,165)
- Cash and bank balances				                 (936,589)  (900,000)
- Fixed deposits with licensed banks				
                                                        (8,790,165)
					 (18,364,069)
                                                        19,677,153
Total net debts              			 14,105,803

Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company 		 103,562,249 129,714,375

Debt to equity ratio         			          0.14                 0.15

The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external
borrowings.
146  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (CONT’D)

     33. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (cont’d)

            There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.

            Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the
            following:

            (i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., is required to comply with the
                    maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing
                    ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible networth (“TNW”),
                    of which TNW is defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties;
                    and

            (ii) Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times.
                    For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total
                    networth (less intangibles and pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding
                    company. Total bank borrowings encompasses the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest
                    free.

            As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as
            mentioned above.

     34. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR

            On 2 June 2023, the Company has announced to Bursa Malaysia, in conjunction with its business
            rationalisation plan, the Company has undertaken certain measures to reduce its overall business
            operating cost as well as improve its financial position moving forward. In view of the plan, the Bukit
            Minyak Production Facility will be decommissioned, in which one of the subsidiary of the Company
            operates the facility for the manufacturing of canned food and drinks.

            The decommissioning exercise is estimated to commence in end of July 2023 and is expected to be
            completed by first quarter of financial year ending 30 June 2024. As part of its business rationalisation
            plan, the production facilities will be downsized and certain machineries and manpower will be
            reallocated from Bukit Minyak Production Facility to the Group’s existing production facilities at Batu
            Pahat, Johor and Jawa Timur, Indonesia, of which the production facility is operated by its subsidiaries.
            The decommissioning exercise only applies to the factory whereas the warehouse located within the
            said production facility will be maintained for inventory storage purpose. The Company also considers
            outsourcing certain production to third parties to maintain the minimum headcount in its production
            facilities.

            Following the decommissioning of the Bukit Minyak Production Facility, downsizing and consolidation of
            the production facilities, the Group has recognised a provision for dismantling and relocation cost (Note
            25(ii)), provision for employee termination benefits (Note 25(iii)), impairment loss on property, plant and
            equipment (Note 9), allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories (Note 14) and other relevant
            expenses during the financial year ended 30 June 2023. Furthermore, the Company has recognised an
            impairment loss on its cost of investment in subsidiaries (Note 12).
                                             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                 147
                                              Annual Report 2023

                                         NOTES TO THE
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                         (CONT’D)

35. COMPARATIVE FIGURES

The comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation:

					 As previously                                                         As
                                                               reclassified
					                                        reported
                                                                           RM
					 RM

2022                                         (26,685,815)                     –
Group                                            (830,341)     (27,253,246)
Statements of Comprehensive Income                          –
Other operating expenses				                                –      (106,827)
Other expenses				                                                 (156,083)
Impairment loss on financial assets				
Impairment loss on non-financial assets				

Statements of Cash Flows:                    4,226,312         (53,698)
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Changes in working capital:
 Trade and other payables				

Cash Flows from Financing Activities		       – 4,280,010
Advance from Directors				

Company                                          (252,177)                   –
Statement of Comprehensive Income:           (5,939,445)           (252,177)
Other operating expenses				                                   (1,564,836)
Other expenses				                                         –   (4,374,609)
Impairment loss on financial assets				                    –
Impairment loss on non-financial assets 			
148  REX INDUSTRY BERHAD
     Annual Report 2023

     LIST OF

     PROPERTIES

     AS AT 30 JUNE 2023

     Location/                        Description         Tenure     Land area        Date of        Net book
     (Registered owner)             (Lot/Title No)    (Approx. age   6.005 acre    Acquisition/        Value
                                    Industrial Land   of building)                 *Revaluation
     Plot 125,                        with factory                                                  30/6/2023
     Bukit Minyak                                     60 years with              *30 August 2012     RM’000
     Industrial Park,               Industrial land      35 years
     Seberang Perai Tengah,         with warehouse      remaining                                     12,280
     Pulau Pinang.                                     (20 years)
                                    Industrial Land
     Plot 126,                        with factory    60 years with  1.740 acre  *30 August 2012    7,206
     Bukit Minyak                                        46 years
     Industrial Park,                                   remaining
     Seberang Perai Tengah,                             (10 years)
     Pulau Pinang.
                                                      50 years with    38,218    *30 November 2012  13,019
     JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,                          21 years    sq. meters                     4,229
     Beji, Pasuruan, Jawa Timur,                        remaining
     Indonesia.                                         (26 years)

     No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,            3 Storey       Leasehold       2,024     10 August 2016
     Taman Industri Alam Jaya,      Semi-Detached                    sq. meters
     Bandar Puncak Alam,
     42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.        Factory       Freehold       149         5 August 2016      1,277

     22, Jalan Perniagaan           3 Storey terrace                 sq. meters
     Seri Tambun,                     Shop Office
     Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,                    Freehold        2.305      26 September 2019  16,130
     14100 Simpang Ampat,            Industrial land                 hectares
     Pulau Pinang.                    with Factory
                                       cum office
     No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
     Sungai Suloh,
     Mukim Minyak Beku,
     83000 Batu Pahat, Johor
                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                         No. of Ordinary Shares held
                                                            CDS Account No.
                [Registration No. 199301027926 (282664K)]   Telephone No.
                                                            Email Address
                (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                                           FORM OF PROXY

   *I/We (Full Name),

   bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.

   of (Full Address)

   being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby
   appoint:-

   First Proxy “A”

   Full Name (in Block Capital)                         NRIC No./ Passport No.             Proportion of Shareholdings
   Full Address                                                                                       Represented

                                                                                           No. of Shares                                        %

   *and/or                                              NRIC No./ Passport No.             Proportion of Shareholdings
   Second Proxy “B”                                                                                   Represented

    Full Name (in Block Capital)                                                           No. of Shares                                        %

    Full Address

                                                                                                                                                100%

   or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on
   *my/ our behalf at the Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at the Kuala Lumpur Golf
   & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Off Jalan Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan on Monday, 27 November
   2023 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.

   (Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how
   a vote is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)

   * Strike out whichever is inapplicable

   No.                                                      Agenda

   1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 together with the Reports

          of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.

                                                                                                                                           For  Against

     2.   To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors
     3.
   4(a).  amounting to RM216,600 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30
   4(b).
     5.   June 2024 and thereafter.                                             (Resolution 1)
     6.
          To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 27
     7.
          November 2023 until the next AGM of the Company.                      (Resolution 2)

          To re-elect, Mr. Tai Keat Chai, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the

          Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.

                                                                                (Resolution 3)

          To re-elect Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause

          115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.

                                                                                                                          (Resolution 4)

          To re-elect Madam Chris Kong Wai Fa, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of
          the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, had offered herself for re-election.

                                                                                                                           (Resolution 5)

          To re-appoint Messrs. Moore Stephens Associates PLT as Auditors of the Company until
          the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.

                                                                                                                          (Resolution 6)

                                                        Special Business

          Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.         (Resolution 7)

   8. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party

          Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature.                          (Resolution 8)

   9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares.

                                                                                (Resolution 9)

   10. Retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain as an Independent Director

                                                                                (Resolution 10)

   Signed this         day of                               , 2023

✄                     Signature of Member                                         Common Seal to be affixed here if
   		                                                                           Member is a corporation, if applicable
Notes to the Notice of the Twenty-Ninth AGM (“Meeting”):

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on 17 November
        2023 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend, participate,
        speak and vote in his stead.

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate,
        speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend, participate, speak and
        vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportion of his shareholdings
        to be represented by each proxy. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed
        to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have the same rights as the member to attend, participate,
        speak and vote at the Meeting

3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly authorized
        in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s common seal or under
        the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
        multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry
        (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may
        appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is signed
        or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar,
        Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara,
        Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
        set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. The lodging of the said instrument shall not preclude you
        from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person at the 29th AGM should you subsequently wish to do so,
        provided a notice of termination of proxy authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24)
        hours before the commencement of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.

6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not require a
        formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the Audited Financial
        Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
   Fold this flap for sealing

   Then fold here                                                            AFFIX
                                                                             STAMP
                                 The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
                                 Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                                 Level 7, Menara Milenium,
                                 Jalan Damanlela,
                                 Pusat Bandar Damansara,
                                 Damansara Heights,
                                 50490 Kuala Lumpur,
                                 Wilayah Persekutuan.

   1st fold here

✄
      PlPotlo1t2162,6J,aJlanlaPnePreinrdinudsutrsiatrniaBnuBkuitkMit iMnyinayka5k,51,411401000
SiSmipmapnagnAgmApmapt,aSt,eSbeebrearnagnPgePreariaTieTnegnagha,hP,ePneannagn,gM, aMlaylasyias.ia.

         TeTl:e(l:+(6+)60)40-45-0580882882888FaFxa: x(:+(6+)60)40-45-058088586566/76/7
                 E-Em-amila: isl:uspuppoprot@rt@rerxemxamlaylasyias.icao.cmom

                wwww.re.rxemxmalaalyasyisai.ac.ocmom
