CONTENTS

Notice of Annual General Meeting  2   Analysis of Warrant A Holdings     69

Corporate Information             8   Corporate Structure                72

Profile of Directors              10  Directors’ Report                  73

Profile of Key Senior Management  14  Statement by Directors             78

Corporate Governance Overview     16  Statutory Declaration              78

Statement

                                      Independent Auditors’ Report       79

Sustainability Statement          33

                                      Statements of Comprehensive        84

Audit Committee Report            53  Income

Statement of Directors’           57  Statements of Financial Position   85
Responsibility for preparing the
Financial Statements                  Statements of Changes in Equity    87

Statement on Risk Management      58  Statements of Cash Flows           90
and Internal Control
                                      Notes to the Financial Statements  94
Additional Compliance
Information                       60

                                      List of Properties                 160

Management Discussion and         63  Form of Proxy
Analysis

Analysis of Shareholdings         66
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

   NOTICE OF
   ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

   NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Thirtieth (“30th”) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Rex Industry Berhad
   will be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur on Thursday,
   28 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof, for the following purposes:-

   AS ORDINARY BUSINESS

   1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30           (Please refer to the
          June 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.                Note No. 6)

   2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors      (Resolution 1)
          amounting to RM204,000 to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year
          ending 30 June 2025 and thereafter.

   3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000             (Resolution 2)
          from 29 November 2024 until the next AGM of the Company.

   4. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
          Clause 115 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
          themselves for re-election:-

   (a) Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad; and                                                           (Resolution 3)
   (b) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun                                                                  (Resolution 4)

   5. To re-elect the following Directors, who are due to retire in accordance with
          Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, have offered
          themselves for re-election:-

   (a) Mr. Hong Kok Cheong; and                                                             (Resolution 5)
   (b) Mr. Tam Kok Meng.                                                                    (Resolution 6)

   6. To re-appoint Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan as Auditors of the Company                (Resolution 7)
          until the conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their
          remuneration.

   AS SPECIAL BUSINESS

   To consider and, if thought fit, with or without modification, to pass the following
   Ordinary Resolutions:-

   7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 1                                                             (Resolution 8)
          - AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2016 AND
            WAIVER OF PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS

   “THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution
   of the Company and the approvals from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
   (“Bursa Securities”) and any other relevant governmental and/or regulatory
   authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the Act, to
   issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company from time to time at such
   price and upon such terms and conditions, for such purposes and to such
   person or persons whomsoever the Directors may in their absolute discretion
   deem fit provided always that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant
   to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
   issued shares of the Company for the time being;

   THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act to be read together with Clause 14 of
   the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the
   statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered
   new shares of the Company ranking equally to the existing issued shares arising
   from any issuance of new shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and
   76 of the Act;

   AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval

   for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so be issued on Bursa

   Securities; AND FURTHER THAT such authority shall commence immediately

   upon the passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until the

2  conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
                                       Annual Report 2024

                         NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                   (Cont’d)

8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 2                                                                (Resolution 9)
       - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
         RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING
         NATURE

       “THAT subject to the provisions of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
       Listing Requirements, approval be and is hereby given for the Company and its
       subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into and to give effect to the category of the
       recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature from time to
       time with the related parties as specified in Section 2.5 of the Circular/Statement
       to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024, provided that such transactions are:-

       (i) recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature;

       (ii) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;

       (iii) carried out in the ordinary course of business on normal commercial terms
              which are not more favourable to the related parties than those generally
              available to the public; and

       (iv) not to the detriment of minority shareholders,

              (the “Mandate”);

       AND THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution
       and shall continue to be in force until:-

       (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
              Company following this AGM at which the Mandate was passed, at which
              time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM
              of the Company, the authority is renewed;

       (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
              after that date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
              Companies Act 2016 (but shall not extend beyond such extension as may
              be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Companies Act 2016); or

       (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of
              the Company in a general meeting;

              whichever is the earlier;

       AND FURTHER THAT the Directors be authorised to complete and do all such
       acts and things (including executing all such documents as may be required),
       as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Mandate.”

                                                                                                            3
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                                                        (Resolution 10)

   NOTICE OF
   ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

   (Cont’d)

   9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION NO. 3
          - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS
           OWN SHARES

          “THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
          Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market
          Listing Requirements and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations
          and guidelines for the time being in force and the approvals of all relevant
          governmental and/or regulatory authorities, approval be and is hereby given
          for the Company to purchase such number of ordinary shares as may be
          determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through Bursa
          Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit,
          necessary and expedient in the interest of the Company (“Proposed Renewal
          of Share Buy-Back Authority”), provided that:-

          (a) the aggregate number of ordinary shares to be purchased and/or held by
                 the Company pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed ten per centum
                 (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on
                 Bursa Securities as at the point of purchase; and

          (b) the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of
                 purchasing its ordinary shares shall not exceed the total retained profits
                 of the Company based on the latest audited financial statements and/or
                 the latest unaudited financial statements (where applicable) available at
                 the time of the purchase.

          THAT such authority shall commence upon the passing of this resolution and
          shall continue to be in force until:-

          (i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
                 Company following this AGM at which this resolution was passed, at which
                 time it will lapse, unless by an ordinary resolution passed at the next AGM
                 of the Company, the authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject
                 to conditions;

          (ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
                 after that date is required by law to be held; or

          (iii) revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of
                 the Company in a general meeting;

          whichever occurs first;

          AND THAT upon completion of the purchase(s) by the Company of its own
          ordinary shares, the Directors of the Company be authorised to deal with the
          ordinary shares purchased in their absolute discretion in the following manners:-

          (a) to cancel all the ordinary shares so purchased; and/or

          (b) retain the ordinary shares so purchased in treasury for distribution
                 as dividend to the shareholders and/or resell on the market of Bursa
                 Securities and/or transfer under an employees’ share scheme (if any)
                 and/or transfer as purchase consideration; and/or

          (c) retain part thereof as treasury shares and cancel the remainder; and/or

          in any other manner as prescribed by the Act, rules, regulations and orders
          made pursuant to the Act and the requirements of Bursa Securities and any
          other relevant authority for the time being in force.

          AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company be authorised to do all acts,
          deeds and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best
          interest of the Company to give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share
          Buy-Back Authority with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications,
          variations and/or amendments as may be imposed by the relevant authorities
          and to take all such steps, and do all such acts and things as they may deem
          fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.”

4
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                         NOTICE OF
                                                                               ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

10. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
       given.

By Order of the Board of Directors

YEOW SZE MIN (MAICSA 7065735/ SSM PC NO.: 201908003120)
YEE KIT YENG (MAICSA 7068292 / SSM PC NO.: 202208000022)

Company Secretaries

Dated: 30 October 2024

Explanatory Notes to Special Business:

1. Resolutions 3 and 4 – Re-election of Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 115 of the Constitution of
       the Company

       Pursuant to Clause 115 of the Constitution of the Company, Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng
       Chun are due to retire by rotation at the forthcoming 30th AGM of the Company. Both Encik Adnan Bin
       Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng Chun have indicated their willingness to seek for re-election.

       For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 30th AGM
       of the Company, the Board of Directors through its Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
       had reviewed and assessed each of the retiring Directors from the fit and proper assessment, annual
       assessment and evaluation of the Board of Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2024. Based on
       the recommendation of the NRC, the Board of Directors is satisfied with the performance and contributions
       of the retiring Directors namely, Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad and Mr. Chee Cheng Chun and supports the re-
       election based on the following considerations:

       (i) able to meet the Board of Directors’ expectations in terms of character, experience, integrity,
               competency and time commitment in discharging their roles as Directors of the Company; and

       (ii) exercised due care and carried out professional duties proficiently.

2. Resolutions 5 and 6 – Re-election of Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 114 of the Constitution of
       the Company

       Pursuant to Clause 114 of the Constitution of the Company, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr. Tam Kok Meng
       are due to retire at the forthcoming 30th AGM of the Company. Both Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr. Tam
       Kok Meng have indicated their willingness to seek for re-election.

       For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 30th AGM of the
       Company, the Board of Directors through its NRC had reviewed and assessed each of the retiring Directors
       from the fit and proper assessment, annual assessment and evaluation of the Board of Directors for the
       financial year ended 30 June 2024. Based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board of Directors is
       satisfied with the performance and contributions of the retiring Directors namely, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong
       and Mr.Tam Kok Meng, and supports the re-election based on the following considerations:

       (i) able to meet the Board of Directors’ expectations in terms of character, experience, integrity,
               competency and time commitment in discharging their roles as Directors of the Company;

       (ii) exercised due care and carried out professional duties proficiently; and
       (iii) level of independence demonstrated by the Independent Non-Executive Director.

                                                                                                                                          5
           REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

      NOTICE OF
      ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

        (Cont’d)

         3. Resolution 8 - Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and waiver of pre-
                emptive rights

                The Company had been granted a general mandate by its shareholders at the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the
                Company held on 27 November 2023 to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016.

                The Company wishes to renew the mandate on the authority granted to the Directors to issue and allot
                shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 at any time to such persons in their absolute discretion without
                convening a general meeting provided that the aggregate number of the shares issued does not exceed
                ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being (hereinafter
                referred to as the “10% General Mandate”).

                The 10% General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities,including
                but not limited to placement of shares for the funding of the Company’s future investment projects, working
                capital and/or acquisitions, by the issuance of shares in the Company to such persons at any time as
                the Directors may deem fit, without incurring any further cost to convene a separate general meeting to
                approve such authority. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting will
                expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.

                Pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 14 of the Constitution of the
                Company, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company which rank
                equally to the existing issued shares in the Company or other securities.

                The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person under
                the authority to issue shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 without having to offer new shares to be
                issued equally to all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.

         4. Resolution 9 - Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
                Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature

                The proposed Resolution 9 is to renew the shareholders’ mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions
                granted by the shareholders of the Company at the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the Company held on 27
                November 2023 (“Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate”). The Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate will
                enable the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into any of the recurrent related party
                transactions of a revenue or trading nature, which are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations,
                subject to the transactions being in the ordinary course of business and on normal commercial terms
                which are not more favourable to the related parties than those generally available to the public and are
                not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company.

                Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024 for more information.

         5. Resolution 10 - Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares

                The proposed Resolution 10 is to renew the authority granted by the shareholders of the Company at
                the Twenty-Ninth AGM of the Company had on 27 November 2023. The proposed renewal will allow the
                Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares
                of the Company at any time within the time period stipulated in Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
                Market Listing Requirements.

                Please refer to the Circular/Statement to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024 for more information.

         Notes to the Notice of the Thirtieth AGM (“Meeting”):

         1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
                21 November 2024 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
                proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.

6
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                         NOTICE OF
                                                                               ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
       the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.There shall be no restriction as to the
       qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have
       the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting.

3. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
       authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
       common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
       Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
       under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
       which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is
       signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the
       Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
       Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
       forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.The lodging
       of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person
       at the Thirtieth AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy
       authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement
       of the Meeting or adjournment thereof.

6. This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
       require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
       Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for
       voting.

                                                                                                                                          7
   REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

   CORPORATE
   INFORMATION

            BOARD OF    Hong Kok Cheong                      Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim
                                                               Non-Independent Executive
   DIRECTORS              Chairman, Independent                Director
                          Non-Executive Director
                          (Appointed as Director with        Chris Kong Wai Fa
                          effect from 13 March 2024)           Non-Independent Executive
                          (Redesignated as Chairman with       Director
                          effect from 31 March 2024)
                                                             Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin
                        Darmendran Kunaretnam                Mohd Zain

                          Non-Independent Executive            Chairman, Independent
                          Director, Group Managing Director    Non-Executive Director
                                                               (Resigned with effect from
                        Chee Cheng Chun                        31 March 2024)

                          Non-Independent Non-Executive      Tai Keat Chai
                          Director                             Independent Non-Executive
                                                               Director
                        Tam Kok Meng                           (Resigned with effect from
                                                               31 March 2024)
                          Independent Non-Executive
                          Director
                          (Appointed with effect from
                          13 March 2024)

                        Adnan bin Ahmad

                          Independent Non-Executive
                          Director

   AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE        NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION

   Tam Kok Meng                               COMMITTEE
   Chairman
   (Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)  Hong Kok Cheong
                                              Chairman
   Hong Kok Cheong                            (Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
   Member
   (Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)  Adnan bin Ahmad
                                              Member
   Adnan bin Ahmad                            (Appointed with effect from 10 July 2024)
   Member
                                              Tam Kok Meng
   Tai Keat Chai                              Member
   Chairman                                   (Appointed with effect from 1 April 2024)
   (Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)    (Ceased with effect from 10 July 2024)

   Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain   Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
   Member                                     Chairman
   (Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)    (Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)

                                              Tai Keat Chai
                                              Member
                                              (Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)

8
                                                                               Annual Report 2024

                                                                            CORPORATE
                                                                          INFORMATION

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

COMPANY SECRETARIES                       PRINCIPAL BANKERS

Yeow Sze Min                              Ambank Islamic Berhad
(MAICSA 7065735)                          CIMB Bank Berhad
(SSM PC No.: 201908003120)                Hong Leong Bank berhad

YEE KIT YENG                              SOLICITORS
(MAICSA 7068292)
(SSM PC NO.: 202208000022)                Johan Arafat Hamzah & Mona

AUDITORS                                  REGISTERED OFFICE

Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan             No. 46C, Plaza Damansara,
(AF 0190)                                 Jalan Medan Setia 2,
Chartered Accountants                     Bukit Damansara
16-03A, Q Sentral,                        50490 Kuala Lumpur
Jalan Stesen Sentral 2,                   Telephone No. : +603-2011 5142
50470 Kuala Lumpur,                       Facsimile No. : +603-2011 6368
Wilayah Persekutuan                       Email Address : rex@rex.net.my
Telephone No. : +603-2778 4252
Facsimile No. : +603-2778 4251            STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING

SHARE REGISTRAR                           Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
                                          Malaysia Securities Berhad
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
[197701005827 (36869-T)]                  Stock Code : 9946
Level 7, Menara Milenium,
Jalan Damanlela,                          Stock Name : REX
Pusat Bandar Damansara,
Damansara Heights,                        Sector  : Consumer
50490 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan                       		 Products &
Telephone No. : +603-2084 9000
Facsimile No. : +603-2094 9940/           		Services

                          +603-2095 0292
Email Address : info@sshsb.com.my

                                                                                                   9
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS

                                       Hong Kok Cheong

                              Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman

                                           Aged 60 / Malaysian / Male

Mr. Hong Kok Cheong was appointed to the Board of        Currently, Mr. Hong does not hold any directorship in
the Company on 13 March 2024. He is the Chairman         other public listed companies or listed issuer.
of the Board and Nomination and Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk             Mr. Hong Kok Cheong has no family relationship with
Management Committee of the Company.                     any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
                                                         and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
Mr. Hong is graduated from the University of Notre       interest, including interest in any competing business
Dame, United States, with a Bachelor of Science in       with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
Chemical Engineering.                                    offences within the past five (5) years other than for
                                                         traffic offences , if any, and there has not been any
Mr. Hong possesses over 35 years of experience           public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
in the Information Technology (“IT”) industry and        relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
is a strong advocate for leveraging IT to drive and      ended 30 June 2024.
enhance sustainable practices as he believes that
digital solutions enable businesses to embed circular    Mr. Hong Kok Cheong had attended one (1) out of
practices throughout their operations.                   one (1) Board Meeting held since his appointment to
                                                         the Board during the financial year ended 30 June
Mr. Hong at present serves as the Chief Commercial       2024.
Officer of Optivolve Pte Ltd, a Singapore-based startup
organisation, and serves as a Strategic Advisor to
Brandt International and Strateq Group of companies.

                                          Darmendran Kunaretnam

                              Non-Independent Executive Director, Group Managing Director

                                                       Aged 63 / Malaysian / Male

Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam was appointed to the Subsequently, Mr. Darmendran was appointed as

Board of the Company and as the Group Managing the Chief Financial Officer of Kejuruteraan Samudra

Director on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not sit in Timur Berhad (“KSTB”) and its group of subsidiaries

any of the Board Committees of the Company.              prior to being appointed to the Board of KSTB as a

Mr. Darmendran graduated from Universiti                 Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2009. He was
Kebangsaan Malaysia with a Business Degree               redesignated as Executive Director on 24 August
majoring in Accounting. He is also a member of the       2009 and continues to hold this position till present.
Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian         Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Darmendran in
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He spent ten  other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on
(10) years as Group Manager in the Audit Division of     27 December 2016.

an international public accounting firm from 1985 to Mr. Darmendran has no family relationship with any

1995.                                                    Director and/or major shareholder of the Group

Mr. Darmendran then joined Gold Bridge Engineering       and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
& Construction Berhad (“Gold Bridge”) as the             interest, including interest in any competing business
General Manager of the Finance and Corporate             with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
Planning Division in 1996 and successfully listed        offences within the past five (5) years other than for
Gold Bridge on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia         traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
Securities Berhad. He went on to restructure and list    public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
Safeguards Corporation Berhad (“Safeguards”) on          relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in June 1997. He was    ended 30 June 2024.

later appointed to the Board of Safeguards in August Mr. Darmendran had attended all six (6) Board

1997. In year 2007, he, together with his partner, took Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June

         Safeguards private.                             2024.

10
                                                           Annual Report 2024

                                                            PROFILE OF
                                                            DIRECTORS

                                                                  (Cont’d)

       Chee Cheng Chun

Non-Independent Non-Executive Director

        Aged 39 / Malaysian / Male

Mr. Chee Cheng Chun was appointed to the Board of          Mr. Chee has no family relationship with any Director
the Company on 3 March 2015. Currently, he does not        and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
sit in any of the Board Committees of the Company.         no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
                                                           including interest in any competing business with the
Mr. Chee graduated from Imperial College, London           Group. He had not been convicted of any offences
with a Master of Engineering in Aeronautical               within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
Engineering. He worked as Business Development             offences, if any, and there has not been any public
Manager in Kejuruteraan Samudra Timur Berhad               sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
(“KSTB”) before he was appointed to the Board of           regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
KSTB. Currently, the only directorship of Mr. Chee in      June 2024.
other public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on
27 December 2016.                                          Mr. Chee had attended five (5) out of six (6) Board
                                                           Meetings held in the financial year ended 30 June
                                                           2024.

       Tam Kok Meng

Independent Non-Executive Director

     Aged 58 / Malaysian / Male

Mr. Tam Kok Meng was appointed to the Board of the         Currently, Mr. Tam does not hold any directorship in
Company on 13 March 2024. He is the Chairman of            other public listed companies or listed issuer.
the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the
Company.                                                   Mr. Tam has no family relationship with any Director
                                                           and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
Mr. Tam is a Chartered Accountant and a member of          no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and a Certified     including interest in any competing business with the
Public Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Certified  Group. He had not been convicted of any offences
Public Accountants. Mr. Tam has more than 35 years         within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
of accounting, auditing, finance, management and           offences , if any, and there has not been any public
advisory experience gained from working in Hanafiah        sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
Raslan & Mohamad/Arthur Andersen, Chartered                regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
Accountants, several large corporations such as            June 2024.
MBF Finance Berhad, Damansara Realty Bhd Group
of Companies and SCM Integrated Systems Sdn Bhd            Mr. Tam attended one (1) Board Meeting held since
(a Canadian-Malaysian Joint Venture) and in the            his appointment to the Board during the financial
last 25 years as the founder of Bridge Advisory Group      year ended 30 June 2024.
that provides auditing, outsourcing, tax compliance,
internal audit, litigation support, financial advisory
and insolvency services.

                                                                                                                       11
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    PROFILE OF
    DIRECTORS

    (Cont’d)

                             Adnan Bin Ahmad

                         Independent Non-Executive Director

                              Aged 75 / Malaysian / Male

    Encik Adnan bin Ahmad was appointed to the Board         Currently, the only directorship of Encik Adnan in other
    of the Company on 12 April 2018. He is a member of       public companies is KSTB, which was delisted on 27
    the Audit and Risk Management Committee of the           December 2016.
    Company and a member of the Nomination and
    Remuneration Committee.                                  Encik Adnan has no family relationship with any
                                                             Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
    Encik Adnan graduated with a Diploma in Industrial       and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
    Relations. He started his career with Messrs. Hanafiah,  interest, including interest in any competing business
    Raslan & Mohamad in 1967.He then joined Safeguards       with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
    G4S Sdn. Bhd., holding various positions, including      offences within the past five (5) years other than for
    Head of Human Resource & Administration and Head         traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
    of Administration and Regulatory and Premises. He        public sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the
    was also the Chairman of Koperasi Pelaburan Pekerja-     relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
    Perkerja Safeguards from 1997 until his retirement on    ended 30 June 2024.
    31 March 2014.
                                                             Encik Adnan had attended all six (6) Board Meetings
                                                             held in the financial year ended 30 June 2024.

                           Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim

                         Non-Independent Executive Director

                              Aged 63 / Malaysian / Male

    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim was appointed to the Board of       Currently, Dato’ Cheah does not hold any directorship
    the Company on 11 October 2022. He also acts as          in other public listed companies or listed issuer.
    the Chief Executive Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn.
    Bhd. and Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of      Dato’ Cheah has no family relationship with any
    the Company. Currently, he does not sit in any of the    Director and/or major shareholder of the Group
    Board Committees of the Company.                         and has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
                                                             interest, including interest in any competing business
    Dato’ Cheah graduated with a Diploma in                  with the Group. He had not been convicted of any
    Management Programme. He has more than thirty            offences within the past five (5) years other than for
    (30) years of experience in the fast-moving consumer     traffic offences, if any, and there has not been any
    goods industry, primarily in the areas of sales and      public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant
    marketing and business re-engineering. Prior to joining  regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
    the Group, he had various senior sales and marketing     June 2024.
    positions in companies such as Rothmans of Pall Mall
    Berhad, British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad         Dato’ Cheah, had attended all six (6) Board Meetings
    and Carlsberg Breweries Malaysia Berhad. He then         held in the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
    went to head the sustainable development division at
    IRIS Corporation Berhad for five (5) years. He joined
    the Group in October 2017 as the Marketing Director
    prior to assuming his current role as Chief Executive
    Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. and Rex Trading
    Sdn. Bhd., the subsidiaries of the Company.

12
                                                           Annual Report 2024

                                                            PROFILE OF
                                                            DIRECTORS

                                                                  (Cont’d)

    Chris Kong Wai Fa

Non-Independent Executive Director

   Aged 60 / Malaysian / Female

Chris Kong Wai Fa was appointed to the Board of the        Currently, Chris does not hold any directorship in other
Company on 22 May 2023. She is the Company’s               public listed companies or listed issuer.
General Manager of Procurement, Logistic and
Warehouse, overseeing the overall supply chain             Chris has no family relationship with any Director and/
operations, including inventory management and             or major shareholder of the Group and has no conflict
logistics planning. Currently, she does not sit in any of  of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
the Board Committees of the Company.                       interest in any competing business with the Group.
                                                           She had not been convicted of any offences within
Chris graduated with a LCCI Diploma. She started           the past five (5) years other than for traffic offences , if
her career in the Finance Department of Safeguards         any, and there has not been any public sanctions or
Oceanic Freightways Sdn. Bhd. in 1982, working             penalties imposed on her by the relevant regulatory
her way up to the operations, sales and eventually         bodies during the financial year ended 30 June 2024..
becoming the Chief Executive Officer of a logistics
business company involved in land, sea and air             Chris had attended all six (6) Board Meetings held in
transport, forwarding and warehousing, Safeguards          the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Oceanic. Chris has over forty (40) years of experience
in the logistics industry, and has various expertise in
financial management, human resources, operations
and sales.

                                                                                                                         13
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    PROFILE OF
    KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT

                Chu Seang Ming

    General Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia

                  Aged 58 / Malaysian / Male

    Mr. Chu Seang Ming was appointed as the General            was tasked with establishing and setting up a new
    Manager of P.T. Rex Canning, a subsidiary of the           processing plant and operations for the Rex Group in
    Company, on 1 May 1998.                                    People’s Republic of China in his capacity as General
                                                               Manager for Jie Yang Rex Foods Ltd. Co, before he
    Mr. Chu holds a Master of Business Administration,         returned to P.T. Rex Canning in 1998 to be in charge of
    Marketing from Washington International University         the general management of P.T. Rex Canning.
    and various certifications, which include Indonesia
    Fishery Department – QMP & HACCP Program (1994),           Mr. Chu does not hold any directorship in other public
    FDA/USDA Better Process Control School, Indonesia          companies or listed issuers.
    (1995), NOAA – Seafood Sensory Program, USA (2000)
    and HACCP Program SGS, Indonesia (2000).                   Mr. Chu has no family relationship with any director
                                                               and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
    Mr. Chu started his career with a frozen food              no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
    manufacturer based in Perak as a Factory Quality           including interest in any competing business with the
    Controller where he undertook laboratory quality           Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
    control tasks for frozen shrimp processing. In 1990, he    within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
    joined Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a subsidiary of the      offences, if any, and there has not been any public
    Company, as its Quality Control Supervisor. He then        sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
    moved to P.T. Rex Canning, Indonesia in 1992 as its        regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
    Quality Control Manager. From 1997 to 1998, Mr. Chu        June 2024.

              Leslie Chng Theng Tat

    Chief Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd.

                     Aged 65 / Malaysian / Male

    Mr. Leslie Chng Theng Tat was re-joined as the Chief       Mr. Leslie does not hold any directorship in other public
    Operating Officer of Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., a          companies or listed issuers.
    subsidiary of the Company, on 2 May 2024.
                                                               Mr. Leslie has no family relationship with any director
    Mr. Leslie holds a Sales Management Certificate            and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
    from the Marketing Council of Australia and has over       no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
    thirty-seven (37) years various portfolios including       including interest in any competing business with the
    key accounts, brand management, channel and                Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
    merchandising and marketing operations. He also            within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
    spent four (4) years in Thailand as marketing director     offences, if any, and there has not been any public
    cum country manager of the London American                 sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
    Tobacco Company Limited from 2014 to 2018.Prior to         regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
    joining the Group in 2019, he was a senior manager         June 2024.
    with Mobile Kiosk Sdn. Bhd., a major distributor of
    mobile phone accessories to the modern trade. He
    was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of Rex
    Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. from 2019 to 2021. Prior to his re-
    joining, he worked in Indonesia as country manager
    for Paris tobacco International Manufacturing Pte Ltd.

14
                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                  PROFILE OF
                                                           KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT

                                                                                             (Cont’d)

            Chia Hup Tong

Chief Financial Officer of Rex Industry Berhad

           Aged 47 / Malaysian / Male

Mr. Chia Hup Tong was appointed as the Chief               Mr. Chia does not hold any directorship in other public
Financial Officer of the Company on 23 September           companies or listed issuers.
2021.
                                                           Mr. Chia has no family relationship with any director
Mr. Chia is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian        and/or major shareholder of the Group and has
Institute of Accountants. He started his career in the     no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
audit industry, where he gained audit and accounting       including interest in any competing business with the
experience. He then joined Kejuruteraan Samudra            Group. He has not been convicted of any offences
Timur Berhad, a company providing services to the oil      within the past five (5) years other than for traffic
& gas industry in 2006 as Accountant responsible for       offences, if any, and there has not been any public
overall finance and corporate functions. Prior to joining  sanctions or penalties imposed on him by the relevant
the Group, he was a Group Accountant of Safeguards         regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 30
Corporation Sdn. Bhd. principally in charge of the         June 2024.
overall group finance, accounts and compliance for
six (6) years. He joined the Company on 1 May 2021
as Finance Manager of P.T. Rex Canning before was
promoted as Chief Financial Officer.

                                                                                                                       15
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
     OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         The Board of Directors of Rex Industry Berhad (the“Company” or“REX”) (“the Board”) recognises the importance
         of practising high standards of corporate governance in the best interest of REX and its stakeholders, and
         to protect and enhance shareholders’ value and the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries (the
         “Group”).

         The Board is pleased to present this Corporate Governance (“CG”) Overview Statement (“the Statement”) to
         provide an overview of the CG practices adopted by the Company in achieving the intended outcomes as set
         out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with reference to the following three (3)
         key principles, under the stewardship of the Board:-

         a) Principle A : Board Leadership and Effectiveness;
         b) Principle B : Effective Audit and Risk Management; and
         c) Principle C : Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders.

         This Statement also serves as a compliance with Paragraph 15.25(1) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
         (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) and should be read together with the CG
         Report of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FYE 2024”) published on the Company’s
         website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

        PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

         I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

                  Intended Outcome 1.0

                  Every company is headed by a Board, which assumes responsibility for the Company’s leadership
                  and is collectively responsible for meeting the objectives and goals of the Company.

                 1.1 In setting the Company’s strategic goals, the Board relies on the reports provided by the Group
                         Managing Director (“Group MD”), who oversees the day-to-day business operations of the Group
                         with the support of a senior management team. The Group MD will brief the Directors on the
                         operations, issues faced and action plans of the Group in order for the Board to keep abreast of
                         the conduct, business activities and latest development of the Company and to discuss and advise
                         the Management in its formulation of the Company’s short-term and long-term business strategies.
                         Discussions would include the deployment of resources in achieving the objectives to be met and
                         how the Management has performed its duties in order to ensure that all resources are efficiently and
                         effectively utilised. In making its decisions, the Board would be guided by the Company’s values and
                         standards.

                         To ensure the effective discharge of its stewardship role, the Board has delegated certain duties and
                         responsibilities to two (2) other Board Committees,namely the Audit and Risk Management Committee
                         (“ARMC”) and Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).The Board Committees assist the
                         Board in overseeing the Group’s affairs and in deliberation of issues within their respective functions
                         and terms of reference (“TOR”) outlining clearly their objectives, duties and powers as approved
                         by the Board. The Chairman of each Board Committee will report to the Board on the key issues,
                         outcomes and resolutions deliberated at each of the Board Committees’ meetings.

                         To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities in meeting the goals and objectives of the
                         Company during the FYE 2024, the Board had, amongst others:-

                         (a) promoted good governance culture within the Company which reinforces ethical, prudent and
                                professional behaviour;

                         (b) reviewed, challenged and decided on Management’s proposals for the Company, and
                                monitored their implementation by the Management;

                         (c) ensured that the strategic plan of the Company supports long term value creation and includes
                                strategies on economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability;

16
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES

       1.1 (Cont’d)

               (d) supervised and assessed Management performance to determine whether the business is
                      being properly managed;

               (e) ensured there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
               (f) understood the principal risks surrounding the Group’s business and set the risk appetite to

                      ensure that the risks are properly managed;
               (g) ensured sufficient succession planning for the Group’s continuity in leadership for all key

                      positions;
               (h) ensured the Company has in place procedures to enable effective communication with

                      stakeholders; and
               (i) ensured the integrity of the Company’s financial and non-financial reporting.

       1.2 From 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024 of FYE 2024, the Board was chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
               bin Mohd Zain, an Independent Non-Executive Director (“INED”). Upon the resignation of Tan Sri Dato’
               Mohd Ibrahim as a Director of the Company on 31 March 2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, an INED,
               assumed the role of Chairman of the Board. Both Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim and Mr. Hong Kok
               Cheong had provided effective leadership and sound advice on the strategic direction of the Group
               and to monitor and promote good governance practices within the Group.

               Both the Chairmen during their term, had:-

               (a) demonstrated leadership to the Board without limiting the principle of collective responsibility for
                      the Board decisions;

               (b) led the conduct of the Board meetings and discussions in a manner that encouraged
                      constructive discussions and effective contribution from each Director;

               (c) reviewed the minutes of Board meetings to ensure that the minutes accurately reflect the Board’s
                      deliberations, and that matters arising from the minutes have been addressed properly;

               (d) led the Board in establishing, monitoring and implementing good corporate governance
                      practices within the Group;

               (e) encouraged active participation of the Board and allowed dissenting views to be freely
                      expressed;

               (f) ensured appropriate steps are taken to provide effective communication with stakeholders and
                      that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole, for consideration and improvement,
                      if any;

               (g) acted as the facilitator between the Board and the Management by coordinating smooth
                      communication flow between both parties; and

               (h) worked with the Management in reviewing plans, defining issues, maintaining accountability
                      and in any marketing efforts that would effectively position the Company to facilitate growth.

       1.3 The positions of Chairman of the Board and Group MD are held by two (2) different individuals with
               clear accepted divisions of power and responsibilities as outlined in the Board Charter. This is to
               ensure a balance of power and authority, such that no one (1) individual has unfettered powers of
               decision making.

               The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for leading the Board in its collective oversight
               of Management as well as to provide guidance on strategic matters, while the Group MD has
               overall responsibilities over the business operations and day-to-day management of the Group and
               implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions. The division of responsibilities is set out in the
               Company’s Board Charter.

                                                                                                                                         17
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

        (Cont’d)

        PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

         I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

                 1.4 The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the NRC and a member of the ARMC. The Board
                         takes cognisance that the MCCG does not recommend this and had reconsidered its Committees’
                         composition again but in light of the small board size against other corporate governance
                         requirements, recommendations, and best practices, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong will continue to be part of
                         the Board Committees. The Board is convinced that the presence of the other members in the Board
                         Committees would still create a good balance for open and free discussions.

                 1.5 The Company is supported by two (2) suitably qualified and competent Company Secretaries,
                         namely Ms. Chua Siew Chuan and Ms.Yeow Sze Min, who are qualified Chartered Secretaries as per
                         Section 235(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 and are Fellow Members of the Malaysian Association
                         of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (“MAICSA”).

                         The Company Secretaries are the external Company Secretaries from Securities Services (Holdings)
                         Sdn. Bhd. with vast knowledge and experience from being in public practice.They are supported by
                         a dedicated team of secretarial personnel.

                         During the FYE 2024, the Company Secretaries had discharged their duties and responsibilities
                         accordingly.They will continue to keep themselves abreast on matters concerning company law, the
                         capital market,CG,and other pertinent matters,as well as with changes in the regulatory environment
                         through continuous training and industry updates.

                         The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries to the
                         Board in discharging their functions and duties.

                 1.6 All Board and Board Committee meetings are scheduled in advance to enable Board members to
                         reserve their dates for the meetings. During FYE 2024, the Management together with the assistance of
                         the Company Secretaries strived to circulate all complete meeting materials at least five (5) business
                         days in advance in accordance with the Company’s Constitution.

                         Nonetheless, detailed minutes of the Board or Board Committee meetings, with the complete and
                         accurate record of the decisions and resolutions of the meetings, have been distributed by the
                         Company Secretaries to all Directors and Board Committee members with sufficient time for their
                         review and for them to seek for clarification prior to confirmation of the said minutes at the next Board
                         or Board Committee meeting.

                 	Upon signature by the Chairman of the respective Board and Board Committees, the minutes of the
                         Board or Board Committee meetings are kept into the Minutes Books kept at the registered office of
                         the Company to be made available for inspection.

                         The Management takes cognisance of the importance of providing complete and adequate
                         information to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to make informed decisions to discharge
                         their duties and responsibilities. They will continue to strive in ensuring that the complete meeting
                         materials are circulated at least five (5) business days in advance of the meetings by hand or email.

18
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

         Intended Outcome 2.0

         There is demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board Committees and Management.

         There is clarity in the authority of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.

       2.1 The Board has a Board Charter, which was last reviewed and revised by the Board on 27 November
               2023 and includes a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board. The said schedule details
               the responsibilities of the Board and Board-Management relationship, including management
               limitations, as well as an outline on what is expected of Directors in terms of their commitment, roles
               and responsibilities as Board Members. With this, the respective functions, roles and responsibilities of
               the Directors and the Management are clearly set out in the Board Charter as guidance and clarity
               to enable them to effectively discharge their duties.

               The latest version of the Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.
               com.

               The TOR of the ARMC has been reviewed in line with the recent amendments made to the MainLR in
               relation to the conflict of interest (“COI”) was approved by the Board on 1 July 2023 for adoption.

               The Board keeps itself abreast of the responsibilities delegated to each Board Committee, and
               matters deliberated at each Board Committee meeting through the minutes of the Board Committee
               meetings and reports from the respective Board Committee Chairmen, which are presented to the
               Board during Board meetings at the appropriate regular intervals.

               To-date, the Board has not appointed a Senior Independent Director.

               Activities of the NRC

               On 15 August 2023, the NC had merged with RC and to be known as Nomination and Remuneration
               Committee (“NRC”). The rationale for the merger of the two Board Committees is to enhance the
               efficiency of the Board Committees in discharging its duties and responsibilities.

               During the FYE 2024, the NRC has undertaken the following activities in the discharge of its duties:-

               (i) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the NRC meetings held;
               (ii) Reviewed the contribution and performance of each individual director to assess the character,

                      experience, integrity, and competence to effectively discharge their role as a Director through a
                      comprehensive assessment system;
               (iii) Conducted evaluations to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the Board
                      Committees;
               (iv) Reviewed the term of office of the ARMC and assessed its effectiveness as a whole;
               (v) Reviewed the service contract agreement of the Group MD;
               (vi) Reviewed the independence of the Independent Directors and assessed their ability to bring
                      independent and objective judgement to Board deliberations;
               (vii) Identified, assessed and conducted the fit and proper assessment on potential candidates to
                      be appointment as INED members of the Board, and upon being satisfied with the assessment,
                      recommended to the Board for the appointment of the same;
               (viii) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are to retire by rotation at the Annual General
                      Meeting (“AGM”); and
               (ix) Reviewed the meeting attendance of the Board and Board Committees.

                                                                                                                                         19
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

    I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

           During the FYE 2024, the Board had convened a total of six (6) Board meetings for the purposes of
           deliberating on the Company’s quarterly financial results and discussing other strategic and important
           matters. During the Board meetings, the Board reviewed the operations and performance of the Group
           and other strategic issues that may affect the Group’s business. Relevant senior management members
           were invited to attend some of the Board meetings to provide the Board with their views and clarifications
           on issues raised by the Directors.

           The NRC has been tasked to review the attendance of the Directors at Board and/or Board Committee
           meetings. Upon review, the NRC noted the Directors, to the best of their ability, have devoted sufficient time
           and effort to attend Board and/or Board Committee meetings for the FYE 2024.

           The attendance of Directors during the FYE 2024 is set out below:-

    Directors                                   Directorship  Board   ARMC      NRC
                                                                4/5     3/4      0/0
    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain    INED            1/1
    (Resigned from the Board on 31 March 2024)                  1/1     1/1      1/1
                                                                4/5
    Hong Kok Cheong                             INED            6/6     1/1      1/1
    (Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024)                   6/6
                                                                5/6     3/4      0/0
    Tam Kok Meng                                INED            6/6
    (Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024)                   6/6     5/5      0/0
                                                                       Not a    Not a
    Tai Keat Chai                               INED                 member   member
    (Resigned from the Board on 31 March 2024)                         Not a    Not a
                                                                     member   member
    Adnan bin Ahmad                             INED                   Not a    Not a
                                                                     member   member
    Darmendran Kunaretnam                       Non-IED                Not a    Not a
                                                                     member   member
    Chee Cheng Chun                             Non-INED

    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim                        Non-IED

    Chris Kong Wai Fa                           Non-IED

    In order for the Group to remain competitive, the Board ensures that the Directors continuously enhance
    their skills and expand their knowledge to meet the challenges of the Board.

    The Board has cultivated the following best practices:-

    • All newly appointed Directors are to attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as prescribed
           by the MainLR within the stipulated timeframe;

    • All Directors are encouraged to attend talks, training programmes and seminars to update their
           knowledge on the latest regulatory and business environment; and

    • The Directors are briefed by the Company Secretaries on updates by Bursa Securities periodically.

    	Upon assessing the training needs of the Directors, the Board recognised that continuing education
           would be the way forward in ensuring its members are continually equipped with the necessary skills and
           knowledge to meet the challenges ahead.

20
                                                                                Annual Report 2024

                                         CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                 OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                            (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       Up to the date of this report,the Board members had participated in the following trainings and/or courses:-

Name of Directors             Dates                               Description of
Hong Kok Cheong      29 – 30 April 2024                     Training Programmes
Tam Kok Meng         29 – 30 April 2024
Chee Cheng Chun        17 August 2023          Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
                      16 October 2024                      Programme (MAP) 2023
Chris Kong Wai Fa
                   24 – 26 October 2023        Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
                                                           Programme (MAP) 2023

                                         Advocacy Session for Directors and CEOs of Main
                                                              Market Listed Issuers

                                          Bursa Malaysia Board Ethics: Growing Concerns
                                            from New Technology, Stakeholder Interests &
                                                                Conflict of Interest

                                               Bursa Malaysia Mandatory Accreditation
                                                           Programme (MAP) 2023

Encik Adnan bin Ahmad, Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam, and Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim did not attend any
structured training programme during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 but had continuously kept
themselves abreast of the relevant developments in the marketplace through the updates and briefings by
the Company Secretaries such as circular from Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, Securities Commission
Malaysia and Companies Commission of Malaysia, as well as briefings by the Internal Auditors and External
Auditors, communications with other Directors, and daily work exposures throughout the year.

Intended Outcome 3.0

The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate
culture that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.

The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviour and practice in the Company.

3.1 The Company has adopted two (2) separate policies as follows:-

       • Code of Conduct, which sets forth the ethical and professional standards of corporate and
               individual behaviour expected to enhance the standard of corporate governance and
               corporate behavior; and

       • Code of Ethics,which consists of commitments formulated as statements of personal responsibility
               based on the principles of sincerity, integrity, responsibility and corporate social responsibility.

       Both Codes are applicable to all Directors, Management and employees of the Group.

       The said Codes are published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

3.2 The Company has a Whistleblowing Policy in place to facilitate the Company’s employees and
       stakeholders to report instances of misconduct,wrong-doing,corruption,fraud,waste of the Company’s
       resources or abuse of rules and regulations within the Company without fear of retaliation.

       Only genuine concerns should be reported under the whistleblowing procedures. The report should
       be made in good faith with a reasonable belief that the information and any allegations made are
       substantially true and the report is not made for personal gain. Malicious and false allegations will be
       viewed seriously and if proven may lead to legal action and/or dismissal.

                                                                                                                                   21
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

          I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

                 During the FYE 2024, none of the designated persons have received any report or concerns vide the
                 abovementioned communication and feedback channels.

                 The Board had also adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”) to ensure the Company’s
                 daily operations and businesses do not participate in corrupt activities for the Company’s advantage or
                 benefit.

                 The ABC Policy is an unambiguous policy statement on the Company’s position regarding bribery and
                 corruption pertaining to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 and the 2018
                 amendment to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption within the Company as well.

                 The ABC Policy is also published on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

                   Intended Outcome 4.0

                   The company addresses sustainability risks and opportunities in an integrated and strategic
                   manner to support its long-term strategy and success.

                 4.1 The Board believes that sustainable business practices are important to the creation of long-term
                         value.

                         The Company, had established Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) in 2018 to enhance the existing
                         governance structure in relation to sustainability.

                         The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the
                         leadership of the ARMC. The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments
                         within the Group. Ultimately, the Board is accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the
                         Group MD, who also chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability
                         strategies set by the Board.

                         The Group has established action plans to be executed and completed by the SWG during the
                         upcoming financial years as follows:-

                         • To perform studies of what are being practised by peers in similar industry.

                         • To perform domestic studies of internal policies & standard operating procedures and gather
                                 inputs from all relevant departments/functions.

                         • To prioritise the material sustainability issues identified, considering their:-
                                 a) Significance to the Group economic, environment and social impacts; and
                                 b) Influence on the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.

                         • To map and present the results on the Group’s Materiality Matrix.

                         • With reference to data collected, to identify the Key Performance Indicators (“KPI”), to allow the
                                 Group to continuously measure and monitor our sustainability performance and adherence to
                                 the sustainability practices and policies

                         All sustainability-related activities undertaken to set out by the Company have been disclosed in the
                         Sustainability Statement of the Company’s Annual Report.

22
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

I. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)

       4.2 The Company acknowledges the importance of communicating the company’s sustainability
               strategies, priorities, and targets to its internal and external stakeholders.

               The Group publishes its Sustainability Statement in the annual report where the Group’s sustainability
               strategies, priorities, and targets are disclosed. The Group’s sustainability disclosures include a
               comprehensive description of the strategy, stakeholders’ engagement, materiality, and efforts. The
               complete information of the Group’s sustainability statement can be retrieved from the Group’s
               annual report and is accessible from the corporate website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

       4.3 The Board will take part in several initiatives to stay abreast of sustainability issues relevant to the
               Group and the industry. The Board will take the necessary steps to undertake professional training,
               development programs, and activities related to sustainability and governance issues which will
               include climate-related risks and opportunities.

       4.4 The NRC continues to conduct the Board Performance Evaluation annually focusses on the
               competency, contribution and performance, as well as calibre and personality.The Board recognises
               the importance in address the company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities. The Board
               will implement this in time to come to support sustainability measures.

II. BOARD COMPOSITION

         Intended Outcome 5.0

         Board decisions are made objectively in the best interests of the Company taking into account
         diverse perspectives and insights.

       5.1 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) is responsible for reviewing the Board’s
               structure, size, and composition regularly as well as making a recommendation to the Board with
               regard to changes that are deemed necessary. Upon recommending to the Board, NRC will consider
               the required mix of skills, experience, character, integrity, time commitment, and diversity, where
               appropriate, which the person nominated can bring to the Board.

               During the FYE 2024, in compliance with the Paragraph 15.02 of the MainLR, the NRC had identified
               and assessed suitable candidates for the appointment as independent directors. Prior to the
               appointment, the NRC had conducted the director’s fit and proper assessment and on 13 March
               2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong and Mr. Tam Kok Meng were appointed to be Board as Independent
               Non-Executive Directors of the Company.

               The NRC also had assessed the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole and the board
               committees as well as the contribution and performance of each director.

               The NRC annually reviews the performance of directors who are seeking re-election based on
               competency, preparedness, and contributions.The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy had been adopted
               by the Board since 27 May 2022.

       5.2 The Board currently comprises three (3) INEDs, one (1) Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors and
               three (3) Non-Independent Executive Directors.

               The current Board composition is able to provide independent and objective judgement to facilitate
               a balanced leadership in the Company as well as to provide effective check and balance to
               safeguard the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.

                                                                                                                                         23
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

          II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

                 5.3 The tenure of an Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years as set
                         out in the Board Charter. However, upon completion of the nine (9) years, the Independent Director
                         may continue to serve on Board as an Independent Director, provided the Board shall first justify and
                         obtain shareholders’ approval for his or her retention, failing which, he or she may still serve on the
                         Board, but as a Non-Independent Director.

                         At the last Twenty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“29th AGM”) of the Company, the Company
                         sought and obtained approval from the shareholders for the retention of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim
                         Bin Mohd Zain who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 June 2014. Tan
                         Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain has since resigned from the Board of the Company with effect
                         from 31 March 2024.

                 5.4 The Board has not adopted a policy which limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9)
                         years, being a step-up practice.

                 5.5 The Board is judicious of the gender diversity recommendation promoted by the MCCG in order to offer
                         greater depth and breadth to board discussions and constructive debates at senior management
                         level.

                 		
                 		The Group is an equal opportunity employer and all appointments to the Board and employment of

                         senior management are based on objective criteria, merit, skills and experience, and are not driven
                         by any age, cultural background or gender considerations.

                 		At present, the members of the Senior Management team consist of male and female who are
                         equipped with diverse skills, expertise and industry experience to lead the business director on the
                         Group.

                 5.6 The Board will consider referrals from external sources to identify suitably qualified candidates when
                         the need arises in the future and will not solely rely on recommendations from existing Board members,
                         Management, and/or major shareholders.

                 5.7 The NRC will assess the performance of the retiring directors and recommend to the Board before
                         tabling at the General Meeting for voting.The information on the appointment and reappointment of
                         directors will be shared with the shareholders via the Notice of Annual General Meeting.

                 5.8 From 1 July 2023 to 31 March 2024 of FYE 2024, the NRC was chaired by an INED, namely Tan Sri Dato’
                         Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain. Following to the resignation of Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim on 31 March
                         2024, Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, an INED was appointed as the NRC Chairman. During FYE 2024, the NRC
                         Chairman had led the annual review of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness, ensuring that
                         the performance of each individual Director is independently assessed.

                 5.9 Despite the Board not having any formalised board diversity policy or gender diversity policy, the Board
                         practices non-gender discrimination and endeavours to promote workplace diversity and supports
                         the representation of women in the composition of Board and Senior Management positions of the
                         Company.

                         Women representation on the Board and in senior management will be taken into consideration when
                         vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, underpinned by the overriding primary aim of
                         selecting the best candidate to support the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.

                         Currently, the Board consists of one (1) female director namely, Chris Kong Wai Fa. In this regard, the
                         Board’s gender diversity stands at nearly half of 30% as required by the MCCG.

24
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

II. BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)

       5.10 The Board undertakes the following effort to ensure the decision making process is fair and aligned
               with the Company’s objectives:-

               i) The Board affirms that appointment of more woman representatives to the Board and senior
                      management will be prioritised when vacancies arise and when suitable candidates are
                      identified.

               ii) All decisions of the Board would require the consent of the majority of the Board members. In
                      view that the existing Board comprises individuals who have distinguished themselves in their
                      respective fields of expertise, they are able to provide diverse insights and perspectives during
                      board deliberation and decision-making process.

               The Board opined that the above Practices are able to meet the above Intended Outcome.
               Nonetheless, the Board would consider the adoption of a gender diversity policy.

         Intended Outcome 6.0

         Stakeholders are able to form an opinion on the overall effectiveness of the Board and individual
         Directors.

       6.1 During the FYE 2024, the Board, through the NRC, had conducted the following annual assessments
               to determine the effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and each individual Director in
               the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FYE 2023”):-

               (i) Directors’ self-assessment;
               (ii) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
               (iii) Assessment of Independent Directors;
               (iv) Review of the term of office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members; and
               (v) Re-election of the retiring Directors.

               Based on the aforesaid evaluations conducted for FYE 2023, the NRC was satisfied with the
               performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and individual Board members.

III. REMUNERATION

         Intended Outcome 7.0

         The level and composition of remuneration of Directors and senior management take into account
         the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
         drive the Company’s long-term objectives.

         Remuneration policies and decisions are made through a transparent and independent process.

       7.1 The Board has in place a Directors’ Remuneration Policy that sets out the components to be referred
               by the NRC in recommending remuneration packages for the Executive Director or Group MD, Non-
               Executive Directors and other senior management personnel.

       7.2 Currently, the NRC comprises exclusively of INEDs, which is in line with the MCCG’s guidance, and is
               presently chaired by Mr. Hong Kong Cheong. The NRC is governed by its TOR which outlines its remit,
               duties and responsibilities, and the same was last updated on 31 July 2023.

                                                                                                                                         25
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    OVERVIEW STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)

    III. REMUNERATION

             Intended Outcome 8.0

             Stakeholders are able to assess whether the remuneration of Directors and senior management
             is commensurate with their individual performance, taking into consideration the Company’s
             performance.

    8.1 The breakdown of the remuneration of each individual Director for the FYE 2024 in the Company and
           Group levels respectively, is as follows:-

           i) Company Level

                                Salaries      Directors’        Statutory   Benefits- Bonus and
                             and other               Fees  Contribution
                          emoluments                (RM)                    in-kind allowances
                                                                      (RM)
    Name of                          (RM)                                   (RM)  (RM)
    Director
                                           –            –  –                –     –
    Executive Director
                                           –            –  –                –     –
    Darmendran
    Kunaretnam                             –            –  –                –     –
                                           –            –
    Dato’ Cheah                                            –                –     –
    Teng Lim                                    36,450

    Chris Kong Wai Fa                                   –
                                                15,000
    Total                                       15,000
                                                36,000
    Non-Executive Director
                                                        –
    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd      –                 102,450      –                –     –

    Ibrahim bin Mohd

    Zain

    Tai Keat Chai           –                              –                –     –

    Hong Kok Cheong         –                              –                –     –

    Tam Kok Meng            –                              –                –     –

    Adnan bin Ahmad         –                              –                –     –

    Chee Cheng Chun         –                              –                –     –

    Total                   –                              –                –     –

26
                                                                                            Annual Report 2024

                                                     CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                             OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                        (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
III. REMUNERATION (CONT’D)

       8.1 (Cont’d)
               ii) Group Level

                          Salaries      Directors’        Statutory   Benefits- Bonus and
                       and other               Fees  Contribution
                    emoluments                (RM)                    in-kind allowances
                                                                (RM)
Name of                        (RM)                                   (RM)  (RM)
Director
                           876,171                –       52,152      –     92,405
Executive Director
                           180,000                –       18,902      –     –
Darmendran
Kunaretnam                           –    12,000                  –   –     2,000
                        1,056,171        12,000           71,054
Dato’ Cheah                                                           –     94,405
Teng Lim                                  36,450                  –

Chris Kong Wai Fa                         72,000                  –
                                          15,000                  –
Total                                     15,000                  –
                                          36,000                  –
Non-Executive Director                    36,000                  –
                                        210,450                   –
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd      –                                             –     1,500

Ibrahim bin Mohd

Zain

Tai Keat Chai           –                                             –     1,500

Hong Kok Cheong         –                                             –     –

Tam Kok Meng            –                                             –     –

Adnan bin Ahmad         –                                             –     2,000

Chee Cheng Chun         –                                             –     1,500

Total                   –                                             –     6,500

8.2 The Board is of the view that it is inappropriate to disclose the remuneration of senior
       management staff on a named basis, even in bands of RM50,000.00, for the best interest of the
       Group taking into consideration the competitive human resource environment which may give
       rise to poaching issues, as well as to maintain the privacy of senior management staff.

8.3 The detailed remuneration of each member of senior management on a named basis will not
       be disclosed for confidentiality purposes.

                                                                                                                27
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT

          I. AUDIT COMMITTEE

                   Intended Outcome 9.0

                   There is an effective and independent Audit Committee.

                   The Board is able to objectively review the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations. The
                   Company’s financial statements are a reliable source of information.

                 9.1 At present, the ARMC is chaired by Mr.Tam Kok Meng, who is an INED, while the Chairman of the Board
                         is Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, also an INED. This ensures that the objectivity of the Board’s review of the
                         ARMC’s findings and recommendations is not impaired.

                 9.2 In order to safeguard the independence of the audit by avoiding the potential threats which may
                         arise when a former key audit partner is in a position to exert significant influence over the audit
                         and preparation of the Company’s financial statements, both the TOR of the ARMC and the Policies
                         and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External Auditors require
                         a former key audit partner of the Company’s external auditors to observe a minimum three (3)-year
                         cooling-off period before being appointed as a member of the ARMC.

                         During the FYE 2024, none of the existing ARMC members were former key audit partners. In order to
                         uphold the utmost independence of the ARMC, the Board has no intention to appoint any key audit
                         partner as a member of the ARMC or Board.

                 9.3 The ARMC has adopted a ‘Policies and Procedures to Assess the Suitability, Objectivity and
                         Independence of External Auditors’ (“Policies and Procedures”) that sets out the criteria to be taken
                         into account by the ARMC in assessing the suitability, objectivity and independence of external
                         auditors annually.

                         In recommending the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors to the Board, the
                         ARMC has considered the following:-

                         (a) Competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity of the external auditors in relation
                                 to the audit;

                         (b) Persons assigned to the audit;
                         (c) The audit firm’s other audit engagements;
                         (d) External auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a

                                 timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
                         (e) Nature and extent of the non-audit services rendered and the appropriateness of the level of

                                 fees; and
                         (f) Written assurance from the external auditors confirming that they are, and have been,

                                 independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms
                                 of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.

                         During the FYE 2024, the ARMC was of the view that Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan is suitable,
                         objective and independent to be re-appointed based on the assessment conducted. The Board
                         has in turn recommended the same for shareholders’ approval at the Thirtieth (“30th”) AGM of the
                         Company.

28
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

I. AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)

               Further,following the resignation of Moore Stephens in May 2024,the ARMC had assessed the suitability,
               objective and independence of Messrs. CS Raki Tan & Ramanan as the new External Auditors of the
               Company in place of the resigned Auditors, Moore Stephens based on the following criteria set out in
               the Policies and Procedures:-

               • competence, audit quality, experience and resource capacity;
               • fees;
               • independence;
               • the audit firm’s other audit engagements, non-audit work.

       	Upon completion of its assessment, the ARMC was satisfied with Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan’s
               technical competency and had recommended to the Board the appointment of Messrs. Raki CS Tan
               & Ramanan as External Auditors of the Company in place of Moore Stephens.

       9.4 The ARMC comprises solely of Independent Directors in line with step-up practice 9.4 of the MCCG.

       9.5 The Board has ensured that the ARMC as a whole is financially literate and has sufficient understanding
               of the Group’s business and matters under the purview of the ARMC, including the financial reporting
               process.

               The ARMC has reviewed and provided advice on the financial statements which provide a true and
               fair view of the Company’s financial position and performance.

               All members of the ARMC have also undertaken and will continue to undertake continuous
               professional development to keep themselves abreast of relevant developments in accounting and
               auditing standards, practices and rules as and when required.

II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

         Intended Outcome 10.0

         Companies make informed decisions about the level of risk they want to take and implement
         necessary controls to pursue their objectives.

         The Board is provided with reasonable assurance that adverse impact arising from a foreseeable
         future event or situation on the Company’s objectives is mitigated and managed.

       10.1 The Board is committed to determine the Company’s level of risk tolerance and to actively identify,
               assess and monitor key business risks to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
               assets by monitoring the internal controls in place with the assistance of the ARMC, the external
               auditors and the outsourced internal auditors, who will report on the effectiveness and efficiency of
               the internal control processes and procedures periodically to ensure that the system is viable and
               robust.

               With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk
               management and internal control.

                                                                                                                                         29
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

          II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)

                 10.2 The outsourced internal auditors are engaged to prepare internal audit reports, which summarised
                         the results of the risk re-assessment, risk profiles and the risks identified during the risk assessment
                         process of the Group.

                         The deliverables included in the internal audit reports had been discussed with the senior management
                         of the Group.The results of risk re-assessment represent the Management’s views on the critical focus
                         areas of the Group.The on-going identification and management of risks remain the responsibility of
                         the Board and Management of the Company.

                   Intended Outcome 11.0

                   Companies have an effective governance; risk management and internal control framework and
                   stakeholders are able to assess the effectiveness of such a framework.

                 11.1 The internal audit function of the Group is carried out by an external service provider, namely Finfield
                         Corporate Services Sdn.Bhd.,who report directly to the ARMC and provide the Board with a reasonable
                         assurance of adequacy of the scope, functions and resources of the internal audit function.

                         The internal audit review of the Group’s operations encompasses an independent assessment of
                         the Company’s compliance with its internal controls and recommendations are made for further
                         improvement.

                         During FYE 2024, the ARMC had reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions,
                         competency and resources of the outsourced internal auditors for FYE 2024 and that they have the
                         necessary authority to carry out their work.

                         The ARMC was also satisfied that the internal audit function is independent of the operations of
                         the Company and provides reasonable assurance that the Company’s system of internal control is
                         satisfactory and operating effectively.

                 11.2 The internal audit function of the Company is outsourced to a professional consultation firm and the
                         internal audit staff on the engagement are free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which
                         could impair their objectivity and independence.

                         The personnel involved in the internal audit reviews possess professional qualifications and/or
                         a university degree. Most of them are members of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia. The
                         Engagement Partner, Mr. Tan Yen Yeow has a diverse professional experience in internal audit, risk
                         management and corporate governance advisory.

         PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
         STAKEHOLDERS

          I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS

                   Intended Outcome 12.0

                   There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual
                   understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.

                   Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the business of the Company, its
                   policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.

30
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                                                                        OVERVIEW STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
I. ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

       12.1 The Board has developed internal corporate disclosure practices to ensure that communication
               to the investing public regarding the business, operations and financial performance of the Group
               are accurate, timely, factual, informative, consistent, broadly disseminated and where necessary,
               information filed with regulators is in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
               The Board has a Corporate Disclosure Policy and Procedure in place to ensure only designated
               spokespersons will be authorised to disseminate information to ensure consistent and accurate flow
               of information disclosure to the stakeholders.
               The Board ensures that there is effective, transparent and regular communication with its stakeholders
               through a variety of communication channels as follows:-
               (a) Announcements to Bursa Securities
                      Material information, updates and periodic financial reports are published on a timely basis
                      through announcements to Bursa Securities.
                      Shareholders and Investors can obtain the Company’s latest announcements such as quarterly
                      financial results in the dedicated website of Bursa Securities at www.bursamalaysia.com or via
                      the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.
               (b) Annual reports
                      The Company’s annual reports to the shareholders remain the central means of communicating
                      to the shareholders, amongst others, the Company’s operations, activities and performance for
                      the past financial year as well as the status of compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
               (c) AGM/ general meetings
                      The AGM/ general meetings are used as the main forum of dialogue for shareholders to raise
                      any issues pertaining to the Company.
               (d) Corporate website
                      The Company’s corporate website provides a myriad of relevant information on the Company
                      and is accessible by the public.
               (e) Investor relations
                      Shareholders and other interested parties are welcome to contact the Company should they
                      have any comments, questions or concerns by writing in, via telephone or facsimile to the
                      Company’s general email address.

       12.2 The Company is not categorised as a “Large Company” and hence, has not adopted integrated
               reporting based on a globally recognised framework.

                                                                                                                                         31
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
       OVERVIEW STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
         STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)

          II. CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS

                   Intended Outcome 13.0

                   Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively and
                   make informed voting decisions at general meetings.

                 13.1 The Board together with the management committed to ensuring that the despatch of the notice
                         of every AGM of the Company is being circulated at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the date of
                         the meeting. However, for the 29th AGM, the notice of the 29th AGM was circulated twenty-seven (27)
                         days in advance.

                         While this falls short by one (1) day of the recommended best practice, the Board recognises that this
                         notice period would still allow the shareholders adequate time to arrange their time to participate
                         in the AGM. The shareholders would have sufficient time to appoint their proxies and corporate
                         representatives for the AGM.

                         The notice of AGM provides a detailed explanation for each resolution proposed to enable
                         shareholders to make informed decisions in exercising their voting rights.

                 13.2 There were two (2) general meetings held in 2023/2024 i.e., 29th AGM and Extraordinary General
                         Meeting (“EGM”) of the Company held on 27 November 2023 and 10 July 2024, respectively. All
                         directors together with the Chief Financial Controller, Company Secretary and External Auditors
                         attended and participated the general meetings of the Company, to provide meaningful responses
                         to questions raised by the shareholders.

                 13.3 Both the last AGM held on 27 November 2023 and the EGM held on 10 July 2024 were conducted
                         physically to encourage face-to-face discussions with shareholders and stakeholders.

                 13.4 The Company believes that a general meeting is a platform for interaction between the Board, Senior
                         Management, and the shareholders of the Company.The Board ensures that shareholders are given
                         the opportunity to participate in general meetings either physically or virtually.

                         At every general meeting of the Company, the Board together with the Chief Financial Officer, external
                         auditors, and company secretaries would be attending the general meeting to provide greater
                         responses to all shareholders’ queries.

                         The Chairman also has committedly ensured that all questions raised during general meetings would
                         be getting responses either during the meeting itself or after the meeting via email. The responses
                         would be published on the corporate website after the general meetings.

                 13.5 Both the 29th AGM and EGM were conducted physically which allowed shareholders to efficiently
                         exercise their rights to vote.

                 13.6 The Minutes of the 29th AGM and the EGM were not made available to the shareholders within thirty
                         (30) business days after the general meetings.

                 The Corporate Governance Overview Statement and the Corporate Governance Report were duly
                 approved at the Board of Directors’ Meeting held on 24 October 2024.

32
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                   SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                          STATEMENT

SECTION 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

REX Industry Berhad (“REX” or the “Company” or the “Group”) presents the Sustainability Statement (“this
Statement”) for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”).This statement encompasses our sustainability
efforts and highlights the Group’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance in FY2024. This
Statement adheres to the Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide and includes a materiality assessment
emphasizing a multi-stakeholder approach. It highlights REX's initiatives and presents ESG performance data
with a year-on-year (YoY) comparison.The FY2024 performance will establish a benchmark for future goal setting.

REX COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY

REX is a Malaysia-based investment holding company.The Company is principally engaged in the manufacture
and distribution of canned food, beverages, chocolate malt products and coconut milk. REX pledges to
deliver high-quality, healthy and safe products for our customers. REX is dedicated to conducting operations
responsibly and sustainably, guided by the principles of sustainability encompassing ‘People, Planet, and Good
Governance’.

Creating Shared Value

REX place a great emphasis on creating shared value by fostering mutually beneficial relationships with our
stakeholders. We are proud to provide long-term employment opportunities and promote career advancement
for local talent by upskilling our workforce. We aim to foster inclusive economic growth by empowering micro-
entrepreneurs, particularly in rural and economically disadvantaged areas and contribute to the social and
economic resilience of the communities in which we operate.

Environmental Stewardship

At Rex,we recognize the importance of minimizing our environmental impact and reducing our carbon footprint,
and we are dedicated to adopting best manufacturing practices through continuous improvement and the
integration of sustainable practices across all our production facilities. We strive to make tangible progress in our
journey towards greater sustainability.

SCOPE AND BOUNDARY

This Statement covers the sustainability practices across REX Group and operations in its two (2) subsidiaries
located in Malaysia namely: Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd and Rex Trading Sdn Bhd. In this statement, the information
disclosed comprises activities divided into two (2) business segments relating to the manufacturing of beverages,
chocolate malt products and coconut milk and the trading/sales of canned food, beverages, chocolate malt
products and coconut milk. Collectively, the above contributed approximately 42% of the Group’s total revenue.

REPORTING PERIOD

The reporting period for this statement is from 1st July 2021 to 30th June 2024, unless stated otherwise. REX Group
Sustainability Statement is issued on an annual basis for the financial year ended 30th June 2024.

SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND GUIDELINES

This statement is prepared in accordance with:

• BURSA Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements
• Sustainability Reporting Guide 3rd Edition issued by BURSA Malaysia.
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) of Securities Commission Malaysia
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs).
• GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards.

These guidelines ensure that REX reporting is transparent, consistent, and aligned with best practices in
sustainability.

                                                                                                                                         33
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    ASSURANCE
    There is no external assurance or independent evaluation of the performance data published in this Statement.
    All the data has been sourced internally and validated by the information owners. We will continue to strengthen
    the disclosure going forward.

    SECTION 2: SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
    SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES

    2018                               2022                                       2023                      2024                           2025 & Beyond

             Embark on                 Baseline Data                            ESG Policy                          Monitor                             Greater
         Sustainability                  Collection                                                              Performance                     Sustainability

               Journey                 Disclosure Data Gathering                  Revision                   Carbon Accounting                          Action Plan
                                                                                                          Quantified Carbon emissions        Enhance reporting and
                 SWG                   ESG Performance metrices data gathering  Revised Anti-Bribery and  data following GHG Protocol        transparency in accordance
                                                                                Anti-Corruption Policy    Scope 1, 2 and 3                   with the updated guidelines,
    Our Sustainability Working Group                                                                                                         standards, and industry best
    (SWG) was formed to enhance        GHG Inventory & Baseline                 Revised Whistleblowing    Disclosure Data Gathering          practices
    our existing governance structure                                                                     Continuous monitoring and
    in relation to Sustainability      Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory and Policy                          tracking and data collection of              Initiatives
                                                                                                          ESG Performance metrices
                                       GHG emissions baseline were established                                                             Committed in enhancing sustainable
                                                                                                                                           practices focusing on waste
                                                                                                                                           reduction, innovation on highest
                                                                                                                                           food safety and halal quality
                                                                                                                                           products to our consumers and
                                                                                                                                           continuous support the local
                                                                                                                                           communities

    SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK

    We strongly believe that sustainable practices are essential to ensure the going concern of our business. As
    part of our sustainability strategy, we have established Four (4) Sustainability Pillars that have been adopted
    as our Sustainability framework to ensure that, while running the business effectively, we are also dedicated to
    contributing to the larger community. The 4 Sustainability Pillars are illustrated below: -

                                             Sustainability Governance

    Environment                              Supplier                                       Community                                      Employee
    Accountability                                                                                                                          Fairness
                                       Transparency                                         Responsibility

                                       REX 4 Pillars of Sustainability Framework

    Our sustainability efforts are anchored on these four key focus areas Environment, Supplier, Community and
    Employee. The group believes that this framework serves great importance as it ensures sustainability and
    ensures that the products that our employees, suppliers and the communities we serve are taken care of.

34
                                                                                          Annual Report 2024

                                                                                  SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                         STATEMENT

                                                                                                (Cont’d)

COMPLIANCE FRAMEWORK
REX Group list of certifications, licenses and membership of trade associations.

Certification                             Licenses
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point  • Municipal License
                                          • MITI License (Manufacturing)
  (HACCP)                                 • Malaysia Customs Sales & Services Tax
• Halal Malaysia                          • Premise Registration Kementerian
• Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab
                                            Kesihatan Malaysia
  Industri (MeSTI)
• Good Manufacturing Practice             Permits
                                          • Sodium Hydroxide Permit by Malaysia
 (GMP)
                                            Pharmaceutical Services
Trade Associations                        • Lembaga Kemajuan Ikan Malaysia
• Federation of Malaysian
                                           (LKIM)
  Manufacturers (FMM)                     • Dept of Occupational, Safety & Health
• United States Food & Drug
                                            (DOSH)
  Administration (US FDA)                 • Kementerian Perdagangan Dalam

                                            Negeri, Koperasi Dan Kepenggunaan
                                            (KPDNKK)

GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE

Our Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) was formed in 2018 to enhance our existing governance structure
concerning sustainability matters.The SWG, reporting to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”),
is chaired by our Group Managing Director and supported by the Heads of Department (HODs):

• Finance
• Sales and Marketing
• Procurement
• Manufacturing
• Warehouse and Logistics

The role of the SWG is to oversee the performance of the Group’s sustainability efforts under the leadership of
the ARMC.The SWG is supported by representatives from the relevant departments within the Group.The Board
is ultimately accountable for setting up sustainability strategies, with the Group Managing Director, who also
chairs the SWG, being tasked to oversee the implementation of sustainability strategies set by the Board.

                                                                                                                 35
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (CONT’D)
    The sustainability governance structure is illustrated below: -

                                                                                Board of Directors

                                                                   Audit and Risk Management Committee
                                                                                       (ARMC)

                                                                         Sustainability Working Group
                                                                                        (SWG)

    Head of Procurement  Head Of Sales and Marketing  Head Of Finance  Head Of Manufacturing Head Of Warehouse and Logistics
         Department                Department           Department
                                                                       Department                       Department

                                              Figure A: REX Group sustainability governance structure

    RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK

    The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) has formalized the Risk Management Framework and
    Policies of the Group. Under the Risk Management Framework, the ARMC oversees the risk management process
    of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”) formed at the subsidiary level.
    With an established risk management framework, the ARMC is tasked to oversee the area of risk management
    and internal control. The ARMC is comprised solely of Independent Directors.

    Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:

36
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                  SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                                         STATEMENT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS

Over the years, the Group have studied the processes and determined the priority in terms of material
sustainability matters based on the action plan that was laid out over the previous years.

The process of the priority utilizes the insights provided by our stakeholders, with analysis of prevailing issues,
risks and trends that are relevant to the industry and our business that results in the identification of material
sustainability matters which then form the basis for our sustainability efforts.

MMATaERtIAeLrMiaATlRitIXy Matrix

The materiality matrix provided below was generated based on our materiality determination process, detailing
the significance of each material sustainability matter to the Group and to our stakeholders.

                   B            F                                       A  A
                                                                           B
                D  G            I  H                                    C  C Food Safety and Quality
                                                                           D Environmental-friendly
                                E                                          E
                                                                           F
                                                                           G
                                                                           H
                                                                           I

MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER

The table below describes why each of the sustainability material matters disclosed in this statement is significant
to the Group and indicates stakeholders who ranked the matter as ‘high priority’ during our engagements with
them.

Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter

Material        Why It Matters        Who It Matters To                                              Relevant to UNSDGs
Sustainability
Matter          Our priority is to produce quality •                       Customers
                and affordable products that meet •                        Employees
Economic        the needs of our target customers. •                       Local Communities
                                                                           Investors & Shareholders
Customer                                                             •
Satisfaction

Innovation      We invest in research and •                                Customers
                development, exploring new •                               Investors & Shareholders
                technologies, ingredients, and
                processes that have the potential
                to revolutionize the food industry
                while advancing ESG objectives.

                                                                                                                                                                                                     37
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER (CONT’D)
    Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter (Cont’d)

    Material        Why It Matters                     Who It Matters To                              Relevant to UNSDGs
    Sustainability
    Matter          As a responsible food and •                             Customers
    Food Safety &                                                           Distributors
    Quality         beverage manufacturer, we must •                        Governments &
                                                                            Regulators
    Environmental   ensure that our products meet •                         Employees
    Environmental-                                                          Investors & Shareholders
    Friendly        the highest food safety and halal                       Local Communities

                    standards while providing the finest •

                    quality in every product.          •

                                                       •

                    As stewards of the environment, •                       Local Communities
                    we recognize our responsibility to •                    Government &
                    act with urgency and integrity to                       Regulators
                    safeguard the planet.This is why we •                   Investors & Shareholders
                    have produced our products with •                       Employees
                    environmentally friendly materials.

    Sustainable     We have embraced environmental •                        Employees
    Packaging       friendliness as a core value, and •                     Governments &
                    we have produced sustainable                            Regulators
                    environmentally friendly packaging. •                   Investors & Shareholders
                                                                            Local Community
                                                                         •

    Responsible     As a responsible food and •                             Employees
    Water           beverage manufacturer, we hold •                        Governments &
    Stewardship     accountability to extract and treat                     Regulators
                    water in ways that minimize our •                       Investors & Shareholders
                    impact on the environment the •                         Local Community
                    planet and the community.

38
                                                                                        Annual Report 2024

                                                                                SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                       STATEMENT

                                                                                              (Cont’d)

MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTER (CONT’D)
Table 1: Material Sustainability Matter (Cont’d)

Material        Why It Matters                    Who It Matters To             Relevant to UNSDGs
Sustainability
Matter          As a responsible food and beverage •  Employees
                manufacturer, we recognize •          Governments &
Climate         the significant role we play in       Regulators
Awareness       addressing climate change.We are •    Investors & Shareholders
                dedicated to sourcing ingredients •   Local Community
                sustainably, prioritizing suppliers
                who share our commitment to
                environmental responsibility and
                climate stewardship.

Social          We have provided our employees •      Employees
                with an inclusive and safe •          Investors & Shareholders
Employee        workplace to enhance productivity
Welfare         and sustainability.

Local Economy   We actively support small and •       Distributors
Contribution    medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) •     Investors & Shareholders
                by providing access to our supply •   Local Community
                chain and resources to help them •    Suppliers
                thrive and grow. We also strengthen
                the resilience and diversity of the
                local economy.

STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT

We have identified and prioritized the stakeholders, based on the level of influence and dependence of these
stakeholders over the Group, and at the same time, the engagement platforms and the engagement matter
with the respective stakeholders, as illustrated below:

Table 2: The respective stakeholders’ engagement platforms and matters

Stakeholders    Engagement Platforms                  Engagement Matters
Shareholders
                • Annual General Meeting              • Dividend
                • Financial statements                • Return on investment
                • Press releases/announcements        • Financial performance
                                                      • Share performance

                                                                                                              39
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
    Table 2: The respective stakeholders’ engagement platforms and matters (Cont’d)

    Stakeholders        Engagement Platforms                 Engagement Matters
    Board of Directors
    Employees           • Board Meetings                     • Corporate Governance
                        • Annual General Meeting             • Company business strategy
    Government /        • Company organized events
    Regulators
                        • Orientation training               • Occupational safety & health
    Customers
    Suppliers           • Learning and development programs • Human resource management
    Local
    communities         • Employee performance appraisal     • Fair employment practices

                        • Corporate organized events         • Career development opportunities

                        • Ongoing interactions               • Manufacturing issues and policies
                        • Formal and informal meetings       • Food safety issues and policies
                                                             • Effluent & waste management
                                                             • Water & energy management
                                                             • Compliance with applicable laws
                                                             • Economic, environmental and social

                                                                    impacts

                        • Face-to-face interaction           • Manufacturing quality
                        • Feedback survey                    • Manufacturing capacity
                                                             • Research & Development

                        • Interviews                         • Agreeable contracts
                        • Evaluations/Re-evaluations         • Terms of payments
                        • Face-to-face interaction           • Maintaining partnership

                        • Corporate volunteering programs • Support                  towards  community

                         (e.g. community events, knowledge-  development

                         sharing initiatives & partnerships with • Job creation for local communities

                         non-governmental organizations)     • Undertaking business in a responsible

                                                             manner

    SECTION 3: PLANET

    Policy related to REX Environmental
    Management
    • Safety, Health & Environment Policy
    • Code of Conduct

    KEY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDICATOR

    Relevant key environmental performance indicators have been established, tracked and disclosed to the best
    of our ability within this statement as it monitors the progress of current performance against baseline.

40
                                                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                                                          SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                                 STATEMENT

                                                                                                        (Cont’d)

KEY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDICATOR (CONT’D)
Table 3: Environmental Sustainability Indicators Progress for FY2024

Indicator                      Unit Measurement  Baseline (2022)                    2024
Electricity Consumption        Mega Joule        11,722,187                         2,070,797
Greenhouse Gas emissions       tCO2e             10,677                             1,967
Water consumption              Mega Litres       0.077                              0.026
Waste generation               Metric tonnes     2,220                              99

GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT

REX initiated its GHG emissions carbon accounting using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard. Table 4 in this statement shows Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for REX from FY2022
baseline compared to FY2024.

Table 4: REX GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2

Indicator                      Unit Measurement  Baseline (2022)                    2024
                               tCO2e             2,107                              449
Scope 1: Direct emissions -
Organization GHG Emissions     tCO2e             2,468                              436

Scope 2: Indirect emissions -
Organization GHG Emissions

REX GHG emissions were reduced more than 70% in FY2024 compared to FY2022 baseline due to decrease in
operation activities and decommissioning of our Bukit Minyak manufacturing plant.

ENERGY MANAGEMENT

Since March 2019, Bukit Minyak production facility has switched to natural gas to fuel the boilers.

Benefits from switching to natural gas eliminating the release of ash, soot and sulfur into the air and extending
the life spans of the boiler and chimney. Natural gas is also cleaner because it is sludge-free and directly piped
in, gas is better insulated against supply disruptions.

Table 5: Total energy consumption for REX Group from FY 2022 to FY2024

Indicator          Unit Measurement       Baseline (2022)             2023                2024
                   Mega Joule             50,158,480                  29,411,771          9,154,193
REX total energy
consumption

Table 6: Total energy consumption by type of sources from FY 2022 to FY 2024

Consumption        Unit Measurement       Baseline (2022)             2023                2024
Total Electricity  Mega Joule             11,722,187                  6,848,673           2,070,797
Total Diesel       Mega Joule             6,564,487                   7,436,644           5,974,277
Total Petrol       Mega Joule             1,570,381                   1,844,390           1,109,118
Total Natural Gas  Mega Joule             30,301,423                  13,282,062          *0
TOTAL              Mega Joule             50,158,478                  29,411,771          9,154,193

*Natural Gas zero usage in 2024 due decommissioning manufacturing at Bukit Minyak.

                                                                                                                      41
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    ENERGY MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)

                         Total Energy Consumption by Type of sources (MJ)

    40000000                                                                  Diesel
    30000000                                                                  Electricity
    20000000                                                                  Natural Gas
    10000000                                                                  Petrol

                0

                         2022              2023             2024

    Figure B: Total energy consumption by type of sources

    WASTE MANAGEMENT

    Waste generated from our manufacturing processes produced a significant volume of general waste and that
    has been treated to landfill. The reduction of waste generated is mainly due to the decommissioning of Bukit
    Minyak plant.

    Table 7: Total waste in metric tonnes from FY 2022 to FY2024

    Indicator            Unit Measurement  Baseline (2022)              2023  2024
    Waste generated      Metric tonnes     2,220                        436   99
    Waste disposed       Metric tonnes     2,220                        436   99
    Total waste          Metric tonnes     2,220                        436   99

    2500                  Type of Waste Amount by Year (Metric Tonnes)
    2000                 2220 2220
    1500
    1000                                   436 436                            Waste disposed
                                             2023                             Waste generated
     500
         0                                                  99 99
                                                              2024
                         2022

    Figure C: Type of waste amount from FY2022 to FY2024

    WATER CONSUMPTION

    Since FY2022, we continuously monitored our usage of water consumption. In addition, we are looking at other
    alternatives such as harnessing rainwater to reduce our water consumption in future. The reduction of water
    consumption in FY2024 is largely attributed to the decommissioning of Bukit Minyak plant.

42
                                                                                      Annual Report 2024

                                                                              SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                     STATEMENT

                                                                                            (Cont’d)

WATER CONSUMPTION (CONT’D)
Table 8: Total water consumption from FY2022 to FY2024

Indicator                       Unit                    Baseline (2022) 2023        2024
                                Measurement
Water consumption               Megaliters              0.077  0.065                0.026
Water discharged                Megaliters              –      –                    –
Total water consumption (Water  Megaliters              0.077  0.065                0.026
consumption-water discharged)

                                Water Consumption (Megalitres)

 0.1
0.05

    0

                   2022                            2023                       2024
                                             Water Consumption (Megalitres)

Figure D: Total water consumption from FY2022 to FY2024

SECTION 4: PEOPLE

Policy related to REX Social
Dimensions
• Employee Handbook
• Safety, Health & Environment Policy
• Code of Conduct

WORKFORCE DIVERSITY

At REX, we recognize that diversity has become a fundamental strength that helps us to drive innovation,
creativity, and success. We aim for REX to be a workplace where every employee feels valued, respected, and
empowered regardless of their background. We celebrate differences, champion equity, and actively seek
perspectives from all walks of life.

As such, we have put into practice having a diverse workplace. FY2024 where the percentage of our employees
in the executive categories was 72% male and 28% female with the age range of 8% for those who were under
30 and 92% for those who were above the age of 30. As for the non-executive categories, there were 82% male
and 18% female with the age range of 48% for those who were under 30 and 52% for those who were above
the age of 30.

                                                                                                             43
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT

(Cont’d)

WORKFORCE DIVERSITY (CONT’D)

We also practice diversity even at the director level of the company where there is 86% male 14% female with the
age range of 14% for those who were under 40 and 86% for those who were above the age of 40.

                   Employee by Gender (%)                                                Employee by Aged (%)

2024                                                                40
                                                                    30
2023                                                                20
                                                                    10

2022                                                                   0
         0
                             50                         100               Aged             Aged         Aged         Above
                                                                                                        41-50           50
                                                                          20- 30           31-40

                     Female        Male                                                  2022     2023         2024

   Figure E: Employees by Gender (%) FY22’-FY24’                          Figure F: Employees by Age (%) FY22’-24’

                   Employee by Ethnicity (%)                                         Employee by Category (%)

                                                                    70

            38%                    40%                              60    64                                             63
                                                                                                  57
                   32% 31% 31% 30%                                  50                            43
                                             27%
          27%                                           Malay       40                                                   38
   24%                                                  Chinese
                                                        Indian                   36
                                                        Others
                                                                    30

                                                                    20

   11%                                                              10
                       6%
                                                                       0                          2023         2024

                                                                                   2022

      2022         2023            2024                                   Executive                     Non-Executive

   Figure G: Employees by Ethnicity (%) FY22’-FY24’                    Figure H: Employees by Category (%) FY22’-FY24’

            Number of Directors by Age Group                                        Number of Directors by Gender
7                                                                   7
6
                                                                    6

5                                                                   5
4                                                                   4
3                                                                   3
2                                                                   2
1                                                                   1

0                            2023                 2024              0                                   FEMALE
             2022                                                                    MALE

                   Under 40        Above 50                                              2022     2023         2024

                        Figure I: Number of Directors by age group        Figure J: Number of Directors by gender
                                               FY22’-FY24’                                     FY22’-FY24’

44
                                                                         Annual Report 2024

                                                                 SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                        STATEMENT

                                                                               (Cont’d)

EMPLOYMENT

Human resources are seen as one of the core pillars of the Group,as it is important to recruit and retain high-caliber
employees to add value to the Group. The Group is ardent to nurturing a diverse, competent, and dedicated
talent pool by providing routine staff training and development to encourage their career development and
performance enhancement which are relevant to their current or future job functions. Moreover, REX also
provides opportunities for contract/temporary staff who are looking for employment.

TURNOVER RATE

For FY 2024, REX registered 4 resignations at the executive and non-executive levels, and 2 at the managerial
level.

NON-DISCRIMINATION AND VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Besides that, REX also takes Labour Practices and Standards very seriously and strives to abide by the Labour
Practices and Standards as outlined in the Employment Act of 1955.In FY 2024,we had zero cases of substantiated
complaints concerning human rights violations.

ANTI-CHILD LABOUR

Our company strictly prohibits the employment of individuals under the age of 16 in compliance with Malaysia’s
Employment Act 1955. We do not employ children who have not completed their compulsory education. All
employees must possess a valid Malaysian identification card or, in the case of legal foreign workers, comply
with all Malaysian immigration regulations. The recruitment process and workers’ requirements as stated in the
Company’s Employment Policy.

TRAINING AND EDUCATION

REX investing in human capital by empowering all our employees in all categories by sending them for training
to upgrade their skills and knowledge. In FY 2024, on average, every employee in the company attended a total
of 16 hours of training.

Table 9: Total training hours by employee category.

Indicator                             Unit         2022   2023   2024
                                      Measurement
Senior Management                     Hours        1,440  384    672
Senior Manager & Manager              Hours        672    576    336
Assistant Manager & Senior Executive  Hours        240    960    576
Executives                            Hours        960    720    480
Non-Executives                        Hours        2,256  1,608  1,440

                                                                                                                        45
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    TRAINING AND EDUCATION (CONT’D)

                               Sum of Training Hours by Employee Category

    2500                       2,256
    2000
    1500                 1,440                                  1,608             1,440
    1000
                                            960            960
     500                        672
         0                                            576       720    672       576 480
                                      240
                                                 384                        336

                         2022                         2023                  2024

                         Senior Management Hours
                         Senior Manager & Manager Hours
                         Assistant Manager & Senior Executive Hours
                         Assistant Manager & Senior Executive Hours
                         Non-Executives Hours

            Figure K: Total training hours by employee category from FY2022 to FY2024

    OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH (OSH)

    REX Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has established the Safety, Health and Environment Policy that adheres to the
    Occupational Safety & Health Act (1994) and prioritizes safety, health, and environmental considerations in
    all business operations in accordance with requirements and regulations. We are diligent in providing a safe,
    healthy, and environment-friendly working environment for all employees, contractors, visitors, and the public. We
    aim to implement this policy throughout our business activities.

    WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH

    We view workplace safety and health highly as the safety and well-being of the Group’s employees is the
    foundation of success. A safety and health committee have been formed to ensure the Occupational Safety
    and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994 and Factories and Machinery Act (“FMA”) 1997 are adhered to.

    Training in quality, safety and health has been conducted to ensure all levels of employees are aware of
    their significance and to ensure the Group’s emphasis on safety and health has been well communicated
    throughout the Group.

    SAFETY PERFORMANCE

    The Group would ensure the health and safety policies are adhered to as the compliance would benefit the
    employees, customers, investors as well as the public in the form of quality products and environment-friendly
    practices which do not harm the public environment. In FY 2024, 42% of OSHA committee members have been
    trained in Safety and Health standards. We had zero cases of work-related fatalities, while the Lost Time Incident
    Rate is as in the table below.

46
                                                                                    Annual Report 2024

                                                                            SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                   STATEMENT

                                                                                          (Cont’d)

SAFETY PERFORMANCE (CONT’D)
Table 10: REX Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) from FY 2022 to FY 2024

Indicator                         Unit         2022                   2023  2024
                                  Measurement
Lost Time Incident                             2.7                    2.1   5.3
Recordable work-related injuries  Rate         1.6                    2.1   2.7

                                  Hours

      Incident Rate and Recordable Work-related Injuries by Year
6

5

4

3                                                                     Lost Time Incident

2                                                                     Recordable work-
                                                                      related injuries

1                                 2023         2024

0
                2022

           Figure L: Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and work-related injuries recorded by year from FY 2022 to
                                                                            FY 2024

LOCAL COMMUNITY

As we have been doing for previous years, we have set aside a portion of the sales earnings from REX’s products
bearing the “Love Rex” logo to benefit various poor and disabled groups in our society as part of the company’s
good corporate citizenship initiative.

Throughout FY 2024, we continued to support various orphanages and homes for the underprivileged across
Malaysia under the REX CARE program which consists of MySkills, Rumah Kasih and Open Hands. Through this
effort,we have provided food baskets for over 200 beneficiaries nationwide.Additionally,REX has also contributed
to the local community by providing food baskets for various NGOs, shelters, Police Training Centers and more
which have impacted over 1,200 beneficiaries. Besides that, REX had also provided aid relief to the victims of
Natural Disasters which helped over 2,500 families.

                                                                                                                  47
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       SUSTAINABILITY
       STATEMENT

         (Cont’d)

         SECTION 5: GOOD GOVERNANCE

                    Policy related to REX Corporate
                   Governance
                   • Whistleblowing Policy (Revised 2023)
                   • Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy

                     (Revised 2023)
                   • Director’s Fit and Proper Policy
                   • TOR of the Audit and Risk

                      Management Committee (2022)
                   • Code Of Ethics
                   • Code of Conduct

          ETHICAL BUSINESS

          We believe that anti-corruption efforts are important in the group as they can undermine a company’s ESG
          policies and processes, as bribed officials will ignore standards. In turn, companies that have been found
          involved in corruption, whether intentional or not, will face a backlash and loss of confidence from the public.

          In the interest of good governance and ethical business, the Group has invested in anti-corruption programs
          that align with the company’s ESG compliance which will lead it to corporate growth and propel the nation’s
          economy.

          Completely the FY 2024 period, REX continually sent our employees ranging from the 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, and 60
          to receive training on Anti-corruption where the total percentage of employees who have attended the Anti-
          corruption training stands at 72%. We have also assessed our employees to find out if they have been involved
          in corruption-related cases and we are proud to disclose that zero confirmed incidents of corruption have taken
          place in REX.

          CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PROTECTION

          As of late, we have seen how important data privacy and security have become in our society with companies
          being involved in the act of buying and selling data and how important it is to secure the companies’ security
          to avoid data breaches.

          Therefore, REX has invested heavily in ensuring that the data of all those who are connected with the company,
          be it customers, stakeholders, suppliers, etc. are protected with high-level security. In FY 2024, we have had zero
          cases of substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

          PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY

          We place great importance on our product quality and safety to maintain a quality standard for our products
          that are safe for consumption.

          We adhere to numerous food standards and regulations applicable to the food and beverage industry such
          as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”)
          and Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) certifications. Our products are halal certified as well as attaining
          the Halal MS 1500:2009 certification.

          We have set in place a proper Quality Assurance (“QA”) department and Halal compliance committee which
          have clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority, and appropriate reporting procedures to ensure the
          Group’s product quality and safety.

48
                                                                                   Annual Report 2024

                                                                           SUSTAINABILITY
                                                                                  STATEMENT

                                                                                         (Cont’d)

SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT

REX is very particular in our supply chain management. Considering it encompasses the entire production flow
of goods from selecting the raw materials to delivering the final product to customers. We are committed to
working with local suppliers who sustainably produce their goods hence, we are not only serving the community
by providing high-quality goods in the market likewise serving the planet by choosing “green” local suppliers.

PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS

For FY 2024, 60% of our procurement where from local suppliers. REX aims to prioritize sourcing from more
environmentally friendly local suppliers in the future who meet our standards in sustainability.

                         Procurement Spending by Year (%)

80

70  64                                    67                 64
                                                    33                 36
60
                                             2023               2024
50

40      36

30

20

10

0
                   2022

                         Local suppliers  Foreign suppliers

    Figure M: Procurement Spending by FY 22-24 (%)

SECTION 6: FUTURE OUTLOOK

REX Group strives to enhance our reporting and transparency in accordance with the applicable updated
guidelines, standards, and industry best practices. Moving forward, we aim to enhance our performance
disclosure on sector-specific metrics and put into action as part of our commitment to enhancing sustainable
practices focusing on alternatives to reduce our water consumption further by harnessing rainwater, waste
reduction, innovation on the highest food safety and halal quality products to our consumers and continuously
support our local communities.

                                                                                                                49
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    SUSTAINABILITY
    STATEMENT

    (Cont’d)

    Scope of Sutainability Material Matters

    The scope of the internal review covered the assessment of data for the following sustainability indicators for
    FY2024:

    No. Bursa Common                                                Bursa Common Indicators (BCI)
             Sustainability Matters
                                                              Percentage of employees who have received training on
    1. Anti-corruption               Bursa C1 (a)             anti corruption by employee category
                                                              Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related
                                     Bursa C1 (b)             risks
                                                              Confirmed incidents of corruption and action
                                                 Bursa C1(c)  Total amount invested in the community where the target
    2. Community/ Society Bursa C2 (a)                        beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer
                                                              Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
                                     Bursa C2 (b)             communities
                                                              Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for
    3. Diversity                     Bursa C3 (a)             each employee category
                                                              Percentage of directors by gender and age group
                                     Bursa C3 (b)             Total energy consumption
                                                              Number of work-related fatalities
    4. Energy management Bursa C4 (a)                         Lost time incident rate
                                                              Number of employees trained on health and safety
    5. Health and safety             Bursa C5 (a)             standards
                                                              Total hours of training by employee category
                                     Bursa C5 (b)             Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary
                                                              staff
                                     Bursa C5 (c)             Total number of employee turnover by employee category
                                                              Number of substantiated complaints concerning human
    6. Labour practices and Bursa C6 (a)                      rights violations
                                                              Proportion of spending on local suppliers
    standards                        Bursa C6 (b)
                                                              Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches
                                     Bursa C6 (c)             of customer privacy and losses of customer data
                                     Bursa C6 (d)             Total volume of water used
                                                              Total waste generated, and a breakdown of the following:
    7. Supply chain                  Bursa C7 (a)             (i) total waste diverted from disposal
             management                                       (ii) total waste directed to disposal
                                     Bursa C8 (a)             Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
    8. Data privacy and                                       Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO2e
             security                Bursa C9 (a)             Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO2e (at least for the
                                     Bursa C10 (a)            categories of business travel and employee commuting)
    9. Water

    10. Waste management

    11. Emissions                    Bursa C11 (a)
             management              Bursa C11 (b)
                                     Bursa C11 (c)

50
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT                                                                       Annual Report 2024

Indicator                     Measurement Unit                2022                2023       SUSTAINABILITY
Bursa (Anti-corruption)                                                                             STATEMENT
                                                               0.00                0.00
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of                                      0.00                0.00                    (Cont’d)
employees who have                                             0.00                0.00
received training on anti-                                                                      2024
corruption by employee                                             0                   0
category                                                                                       39.00
                                                       42,000.00           43,500.00           92.00
Executive                     Percentage
                                                             3,580               4,160           0.00
Non-executive                 Percentage                                                             0
                                                             22.00               12.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of     Percentage                     26.00               24.00    45,000.00
operations assessed for                                      28.00               47.00
corruption-related risks                                     24.00               18.00         4,250
                                                             24.00               39.00
Bursa C1(c) Con rmed          Number                         24.00               18.00
incidents of corruption and                                  30.00               13.00
action taken                                                 21.00               30.00

Bursa (Community/Society)                                    69.00               73.00
                                                             31.00               27.00
Bursa C2(a) Total amount      MYR                            68.00               79.00
invested in the community                                    32.00               21.00
where the target
bene ciaries are external to                                100.00             100.00
the listed issuer                                              0.00                0.00
                                                               0.00                0.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of   Number                           0.00                0.00
bene ciaries of the
investment in communities                                    80.00               83.00
                                                             20.00               17.00
Bursa (Diversity)                               50,158,478.00 *       29,411,771.00

Bursa C3(a) Percentage of                                          0                   0
employees by gender and                                        2.70                2.10
age group, for each
employee category                                                 13                 30

     Age Group by Employee                                   1,440                  384
Category

Executive Under 30            Percentage                                                             8.00
                                                                                                    19.00
Executive 41-50               Percentage                                                            53.00
                                                                                                    19.00
Executive Above 50            Percentage                                                            48.00
                                                                                                    17.00
Executive 31-40               Percentage                                                            12.00
                                                                                                    23.00
Non-executive Under 30 Percentage
                                                                                                    72.00
Non-executive 41-50           Percentage                                                            28.00
                                                                                                    82.00
Non-executive Above 50 Percentage                                                                   18.00

Non-executive 31-40           Percentage                                                            86.00
                                                                                                    14.00
     Gender Group by
Employee Category                                                                                    0.00
                                                                                                     0.00
Executive Male                Percentage                                                            86.00
                                                                                                    14.00
Executive Female              Percentage
                                                                                          9,154,193.00
Non-executive Male            Percentage
                                                                                                          0
Non-executive Female Percentage                                                                      5.30

Bursa C3(b) Percentage of                                                                               14
directors by gender and age
group                                                                                                 672

Male                          Percentage

Female                        Percentage

Under 30                      Percentage

41-50                         Percentage

Above 50                      Percentage

31-40                         Percentage

Bursa (Energy management)

Bursa C4(a) Total energy      Megawatt
consumption

Bursa (Health and safety)

Bursa C5(a) Number of         Number
work-related fatalities

Bursa C5(b) Lost time         Rate
incident rate ("LTIR")

Bursa C5(c) Number of         Number
employees trained on health
and safety standards

Bursa (Labour practices and standards)                                                                                      51

Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
training by employee
category

Senior Management             Hours
    group

    IndicMataolre                                                                                                                                                                                                  PMeercaesunrteamgeent Unit                        1002.00202                             1002.00203               862.00204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00                   1.00
    Bursa C6(b) Percentage of                                                                                                                                                                                       Percentage                                        0.00                                      0.00
    emplFoeymeeaslethat are                                                                                                                                                                                        Percentage                                        0.00                                       0.00                 14.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00                  0.00
    contrUancdtoerrs3o0r temporary                                                                                                                                                                                 Percentage                                        0.00                                                             0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              83.00
    staff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17.00                  86.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14.00
           41-50                                                                                                                                                                                                   Percentage                                         0.00                                           2
    REBXursIaNCD6U(c)STToRtaYl nBumEbReHr oAf D                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80.00                         29,411,771.003                           2
    emplAobyeoevetu5r0nover by                                                                                                                                                                                     Percentage                                                                                              9,154,193.002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
    employee category                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                      2
           31-40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Percentage                                        20.00                                           0                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2                                   2.10                        0
           Senior Manager &                                                                                                                                                                                        Number                                                                                                             5.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
    SUSTAINABILITY BMurasnaag(Eenr ergy management)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2023                      14
    STATEMENT Bursa CEx4e(ac)uTtiovteal energy                                                                                                                                                                     MNeugmawbeartt                                    50,158,478.00 *2                          67.00                  2024
      consumption                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number                                                              10                                            64.00
               Non-executive                                                                                                                                                                                        Number                                                                0                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number                                                               0                        384                        0
    (Cont’d) Bursa (Health and safety)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           720                   672
               Assistant Manager &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00                   480
      BSuersnaioCr E5(xae)cNuutimveber of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,608                  39.00
      work-related fatalities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00                 1,440
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 576                 92.00
     Bursa C6(d) Number of                                                                                                                                                                                          Number                                                0                               0.0605.00000                 336
    BsuurbsastCan5t(iba)teLdosctotmimpelaints                                                                                                                                                                      Rate                                              2.70                                        960             0.0206.00000
    inccoidnceenrtnriantge h("uLmTIaRn")rights                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                423062.5300              576
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00                 29092.0400
    SBUvuiorSslaaTtiCoA5n(sIcN) NAumBbeIrLoIf TY PENRumFbOerRMANCE REPORT (CONT’D) 13                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00                 1.00
    eBmuprlsoaye(eSsuptrpalinyecdhoaninhmeaalnthagement)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                43,540306.0.500                 0.00
    aInBndduircssaaatfoeCrt7y(as)taPnrdoaprodrstion of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45,00909.0.000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Measurement Unit                                  2022                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Percentage                                      64.00                                 1,286.00                        2
    BBsuuprressnaad((iLnAagnbtoio-nculororpcrarualpcstutiiopcnpe)lsiearsnd standards)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               449.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4,160                  4,250
    BBBuuurrssrasaaCC(61D((aaa))taTPoeptrracilvehanoctauygrsaenoodff security)                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,442.030                436.020
    termainpilnogyebeysewmhpolohyaevee
    creBactueergsivoaerdCy 8tr(aai)nNinugmobnear notfi-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number                                                      0                              217.000                 49.000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,440
    ccscoauotrebrnugscpSoteaterrinynontininioagbrteyMbdreaecmnaoacpmghloepeymslaeeoiennftts                                                                                                                        Hours                                                                                            0                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           960
    custoEmxeecruptriviveacy and losses Hours                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00                                12.00                    8.00
    of cuEstxoemcuetrivdeata                                                                                                                                                                                       Percentage                                           2,256                                 67.00                  64.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00                                24.00                  19.00
          Non-executive                                                                                                                                                                                            Hours                                                   672                                47.00                  53.00
    BursNa o(Wn-aetxeerc)utive                                                                                                                                                                                     Percentage                                        0.0707.00000                             18.00                  19.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39.00                  48.00
           Senior Manager &                                                                                                                                                                                        Hours                                                   240                                18.00                  17.00
    MBBuaurnsrasagaCeCr19(b(a) )PTeortcael nvtoalguemoef of                                                                                                                                                        PMerecgeanlittaregse                              2,222002.0200                            13.00                  12.00
    owpaetreartiousnesdassessed for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.063500.0000          0.022630.0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00
    BSeIaicBnngBBmcoeuudceuutnrrrpiiirnsdcsroiruolsaesaaoenpAarratnyCCatotsEetiCat(or6ss1xeWek1ni((essdobec0-actfn))rt(asueahcPCnttl)aoaeietovTtrtMnerecomaudetrapraaennmrtlntiiaswoaeagkgndgaeseseartmon&edfent)   Hours                                                                                   43763..5000              9792..0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MNMeuaemsturbirceermtoennnteUs nit                      0.00                               27.00                  28.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Percentage                                                                                709..0000              802..0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9198..0000
    cBonutrrsaacCto1rs0(oar)(it)eTmoptaolrwarayste                                                                                                                                                                 Metric tonnes                                                                            43261..5000
    sBdtuaivfrfesrate(Cd ofrmommudnisiptyo/sSaol ciety)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            449.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,286.00                   86.00
     BBBuuurrssrsaaaCCC621((ca0))(aTT)oo(itit)aaTll noautmamlobwuenartsotef                                                                                                                                        MMYeRtric tonnes                    No assurance  422,0,20200.0.000                       100.00
    Ineeiwntdmmehvirreppenesrllcaooettleyyetadeehdseeeisntctoutuaatrhrdartngeenisoegccpvtoeoeormrysabmlyunity                                                                                                      External assurance                                                 (*)Restated                                  43164..0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,4420..0000                 0.00
    bBeunresaci(aErimesisasrieonesxtmerannalatgoement)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                               0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,107.00                                                      490..0000
    MthBaeunrlaissSgateeeCdrn1iio1srs(aMu)eSarncaogpeer  &                                                                                                                                                         Number                                                                                   2170..0000               86.00
                                                         1                                                                                                                                                          Metric tonnes                                         3,580                               83.00                  14.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,468.020                              17.00
    BeumrsisasCio2n(sb)inTototanlnneusmobf eCrOo2fe Number                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9,154,193.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10                   29,411,771.00
    bineBevmunereissstENasmcixoCieaen1nrc-si1teue(isitxnbniveo)teccfSooutncmthnioveempeseuon2fitCieOs 2e                                                                                                           NMumetbriecrtonnes                                  1,103.000                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Number                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                                      5.30
    BBuurrssaAas(CDs1iisv1te(acrns)tiStMyc)oapnaeg3er &                                                                                                                                                            NMumetbriecrtonnes                                                                           2.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14
    SBeeumnrsiiosarsCiEo3xn(esac)iunPtietvorecnennetsaogfeCoOf 2e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       672
    e(matpleloaysetefsorbtyhegecnadtegr oarnieds of                                                                                                                                                                Number                                                                                        384
    BabguuerssgainreCosu6sp(d,tr)faoNvrueemlaabcnehdr of
    seeummbpspltolaoynyeteieaetcecadotemcgomomruyptilnagin)ts
    concerning human rights

    violaAtigoensGroup by Employee

    Category

    Bursa (Supply chain management)

           Executive Under 30                                                                                                                                                                                      Percentage                                        22.00
    Bursa C7(a) Proportion of                                                                                                                                                                                      Percentage                                        64.00

    spendEinxgecountilvoeca4l1s-u5p0pliers Percentage                                                                                                                                                                                                                26.00

    BursaE(xDeactuativperivAabcoyvean5d0 securiPtye)rcentage                                                                                                                                                                                                         28.00

    BursaECx8e(cau) tNivuem3b1e-4r 0of                                                                                                                                                                             NPuermcbenetrage                                       24.00
    substantiated complaints                                                                                                                                                                                       Percentage                                             24.00
    conceNrnoinng-ebxreecaucthiveesUonfder 30                                                                                                                                                                      Percentage                                             24.00
    customNoern-perxiveaccuytiavned41lo-s5s0es                                                                                                                                                                     Percentage                                             30.00
    of customer data                                                                                                                                                                                               MPeergcaelnittraegse                              0.072710.0000

           Non-executive Above 50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,22609..0000
    Bursa (Water)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          608..0000
    BursaNCo9n(a-e) xTeoctualtivvoelu3m1-e40of
    wateGreunsdeedr Group by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,22302..0000
    BEmurpslaoy(WeeaCstaetemgoarnyagement)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,107.00
    BursaECx1e0c(uat)ivTeoMtalawleaste                                                                                                                                                                             MPeertcriecnttoangnees                               100.00
    generaEtxeedcutive Female                                                                                                                                                                                      Percentage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,4680..0000
    BursaNCo1n0-(eax)(ei)cTuotitvael wMaaslete                                                                                                                                                                     MPeertcriecnttoangnees                                  0.00
    diverted from disposal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,1030..0000
    BursaNCo1n0-(eax)(eiic) uTtoivtael Fweamstaele MPeertcriecnttoangnees                                                                                                                                                                                                 80.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20.00
    dBiurerscateCd3t(ob)dPiseprocseanltage of

    Bdiurerscato(rEsmbyisgseionndsermaanndaaggeement)
    group

    Bursa C11(a) Scope 1                                                                                                                                                                                           Metric tonnes
    emissMionaslein tonnes of CO2e Percentage

    BursaFCe1m1a(ble) Scope 2                                                                                                                                                                                      MPeertcriecnttoangnees
    emissUionndseinr 3to0nnes of CO2e                                                                                                                                                                              Percentage

    Bursa4C11-510(c) Scope 3                                                                                                                                                                                       MPeertcriecnttoangnees
    emissions in tonnes of CO2e                                                                                                                                                                                    Percentage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Percentage
    (at leaAstbfoovreth5e0 categories of
    business travel and
    emplo3y1e-e4c0ommuting)

    Bursa (Energy management)

    Bursa C4(a) Total energy                                                                                                                                                                                       Megawatt                                          50,158,478.00 *
    consumption

    Bursa (Health and safety)

    Bursa C5(a) Number of                                                                                                                                                                                          Number                                            0

    work-related fatalities

    Bursa C5(b) Lost time                                                                                                                                                                                          Rate                                              2.70

    incident rate ("LTIR")

    Bursa C5(c) Number of                                                                                                                                                                                          Number                              No assurance  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    External assurance                                       (*)Restated
    Ienmteprnloayleaesssutrraainnceed on health
    and safety standards

    Bursa (Labour practices and standards)

52  Bursa C6(a) Total hours of
    training by employee
    category

           Senior Management                                                                                                                                                                                       Hours                                             1,440
                                                                                         Annual Report 2024

                                                         AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                         REPORT

The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) was established to assist the Board of Directors (“Board”)
in discharging its statutory and fiduciary duties and responsibilities relating to accounting and reporting
practices as well as corporate governance and risk management of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the
Group”).

1. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC

       During the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FYE 2024”), the ARMC comprises three (3) members as
       follows, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, which met the requirements of the Bursa
       Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements (“MainLR”) under paragraph 15.09(1) and
       as recommended by Step Up Practice 9.4 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, whereby the
       Audit Committee comprises solely Independent Directors:-

Name                                        Designation                   Directorship
                                             Chairman    Independent Non-Executive Director
Tai Keat Chai                                Chairman    Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)       Member     Independent Non-Executive Director
                                              Member     Independent Non-Executive Director
Tam Kok Meng                                  Member     Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed with effect from 31 March 2024)

Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain
(Ceased with effect from 31 March 2024)

Hong Kok Cheong
(Appointed with effect from 31 March 2024)

Adnan bin Ahmad

	The Chairman of the ARMC is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants fulfilling the requisite
       qualifications under Paragraph 15.09(1)(c) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
       Requirements.

	Neither any of the ARMC members was previously a partner in the incumbent External Auditors, Messrs.
       Raki CS Tan & Ramanan in the previous three (3) years, nor did any of the ARMC members hold any
       financial interest in Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan.

2. MEETING ATTENDANCE

	The ARMC held a total of five (5) Meetings during the FYE 2024. The details of the attendance of the
       respective ARMC members are as follows:-

Name                                                     No. of Meetings Attended *
Tai Keat Chai                                                            3 of 4
Tam Kok Meng                                                             1 of 1
Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain                                 3 of 4
Hong Kok Cheong                                                          1 of 1
Adnan bin Ahmad                                                          5 of 5

* 	The Meetings were held on 15 August 2023, 24 October 2023, 27 November 2023, 28 February 2024
       and 28 May 2024.

                                                                                                               53
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       AUDIT COMMITTEE
       REPORT

         (Cont’d)

         2. MEETING ATTENDANCE (cont’d)

          	The External Auditors for the Group had attended three (3) of the ARMC Meetings held in the FYE 2024,
                 wherein the ARMC had also met up with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director
                 and management personnel two (2) times during the FYE 2024, which was as required in the Terms of
                 Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC whereby at least two (2) private sessions with the External Auditors should
                 be conducted annually.

         3. TOR

                 The TOR of the ARMC is available for reference on the Company’s website at www.rexmalaysia.com.

         4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC

                 During the FYE 2024, the ARMC carried out the following work activities which are in line with its duties,
                 functions and responsibilities as set out in its TOR:-

                 Financial performance and reporting

                 a) Reviewed the unaudited quarterly reports on the consolidated results of the Group for the financial
                         quarters ended 30 June 2023, 30 September 2023, 31 December 2023 and 31 March 2024, and
                         recommended the same to the Board for approval.

                 b) Discussed the financial performance and updates on the corporate and business developments of
                         the Group on quarterly basis.

                 c) Reviewed the Company’s audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023
                         (“FYE 2023”) to ensure that the financial statements and disclosures presented a true and fair view
                         of the Company’s financial position and performance for the said year and are in compliance with
                         the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 as well as the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting
                         Standards, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.

                 External audit

                 a) Met two (2) times with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and
                         management personnel.

                 b) Received the AC closing presentation prepared by the External Auditors for the FYE 2023, covering
                         matters to highlight, status of audit and salient accounting and auditing matters, etc.

                 c) Reviewed the suitability, independence, experience and credentials of the External Auditors and
                         upon being satisfied, recommended to the Board for the appointment of External Auditors.

                 d) Reviewed the audit planning memorandum for the financial year ending 30 June 2024 prepared by
                         the External Auditors, entailing mainly the overview of audit approach and timeline, key audit matters
                         and areas of audit emphasis and accounting standard updates.

                 e) Reviewed the statutory audit fee for the financial year ending 30 June 2024, and recommended the
                         same to the Board for approval.

                 f) Reviewed and approved the proposed fees in relation to the following non-audit services:-

                         • Review of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”); and
                         • Review of component auditors’ working papers.

54
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                             AUDIT COMMITTEE
                                                                                                              REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)
       External audit (Cont’d)
       g) Reviewed the suitability, independence and performance of the External Auditors for the FYE 2024
               vide a formalised “External Auditors’ performance and independence evaluation” and upon review
               and being satisfied with the results of the said assessment, the same has been recommended to the
               Board to recommend to the shareholders for approval.
       h) Inquired into the assistance given by the Management to the External Auditors.
       Internal audit
       a) Reviewed the internal audit reports, audit recommendations made and management response to
               those recommendations and reviewed the follow-up audits to ensure that appropriate actions were
               taken and recommendations of the Internal Auditors were implemented.
       b) Assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the internal audit
               functions vide a formalised “Evaluation of internal audit function” and that it has the necessary
               authority to carry out its work.
       c) Discussed the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 30 June 2024 as prepared by the
               Internal Auditors.
       Related Party Transactions (“RPT”)
       a) Reviewed the RPT and Recurrent RPT of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”) on quarterly basis to
               ensure that they are within the mandate approved by the shareholders at the previous Twenty-Ninth
               Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 27 November 2023.
       b) Reviewed the Circular/Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Existing
               Shareholder Mandate for RRPT and Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its
               Own Shares, and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
       c) Assessed on any conflict of interest (“COI”) situation or potential conflict of interest situation that may
               arise following transactions highlighted to the ARMC to be undertaken the Company or Group. No
               COI or any potential COI were identified or reported among the board members during the financial
               year under review.
       Oversight of Risk Management and Internal Control
       a) Reviewed the proposed Risk Management Framework of the Company for adoption by the Company,
               and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
       b) Reviewed the disclosures in AC Report, SORMIC and Corporate Governance Overview Statement,
               and recommended the same to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2024 Annual Report.

                                                                                                                                         55
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       AUDIT COMMITTEE
       REPORT

         (Cont’d)

         4. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE ARMC (cont’d)
                 Other matters
                 a) Assessed the performance of each ARMC member by his peers vide a formalised “ARMC member’s
                         peer performance” for the purpose of assisting the Nomination Committee in reviewing the term of
                         office and performance of the ARMC and each of its members annually to determine whether they
                         have carried out their duties properly in accordance to the TOR.
                 b) Reported to the Board on the proceedings of each ARMC Meeting through the Chairman of the
                         ARMC.
                 c) Reviewed and confirmed the minutes of the ARMC Meetings.

         5. SUMMARY OF WORK OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
          	The internal audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional internal audit service

                 provider to assist the Board and ARMC to oversee that the Management has put in place an effective
                 internal control and governance system accordingly to ensure that the Group’s internal control system is
                 satisfactory and operating effectively.
                 The summary of work activities carried out by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
                 a) Formulated the internal audit plan and presented the plan for the ARMC’s review and approval;
                 b) Carried out the internal audit reviews covering the following areas in accordance with the approved

                         audit plan:-
                         • Risk management assessment; and
                         • Compliance with Guidelines on Adequate Procedures pursuant to Section 17A of the MACC Act
                 c) Based on the audit reviews carried out, reported the results of the audit reviews to the ARMC. The
                         reports highlighted the internal control weaknesses identified and corresponding recommendations
                         for improvements; and
                 d) Followed up on the status of implementation of management action plans carried out and reported
                         the same to the ARMC.
          	The internal audit reviews carried out for FYE 2024 did not reveal weaknesses that have resulted in any
                 material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require separate disclosure in this annual report.
          	The total costs incurred for the internal audit function for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 was
                 RM13,795.

56
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                     STATEMENT OF
                                                 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY

                                                                                  FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

This statement is prepared as required by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
under paragraph 15.26(a).
The Directors are required to take reasonable steps in ensuring that the financial statements of the Company
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) are properly drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016, so as
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of its results
and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024:-
• the Group has adopted the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made;
• all applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been followed; and
• the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have ensured that the Group maintains accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. The Statement by the Directors pursuant to Section 251(2)
of the Companies Act 2016 is set out in the section headed “Statement by Directors” of the Directors’ Report
enclosed with the Group’s consolidated audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
The Directors have also ensured that the quarterly reports and annual audited financial statements of the
Group are released to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in a timely manner in order to keep the investing public
informed of the Group’s latest performance and developments.
The Directors also have general responsibilities for taking such steps to ensure that appropriate systems are
reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities and material misstatements. Such systems, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement, loss or fraud.

                                                                                                                                         57
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
     AND INTERNAL CONTROL

          This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) by the Board of Directors (“Board”) of
          Rex Industry Berhad (“REX”) is made in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2024 pursuant to Paragraph
          15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and guided by the
          Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers issued by the
          Taskforce on Internal Control with the support and endorsement of Bursa Malaysia.

          The Board is committed to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
          Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, and is pleased to
          set out below its Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which outlines the nature and scope of
          risk management and internal control of the Group during the year.

          The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for ensuring a sound and effective system of risk management
          and internal control is maintained throughout the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
          assets and regular review of its effectiveness and adequacy is inevitable. The Board recognises that risk cannot
          be totally eliminated and the system of internal control instituted can only help minimise and manage risks and
          provide some reasonable but not absolute assurance that the assets of the Group and of the Company are
          safeguarded against material losses and unauthorised use and that the financial statements are not materially
          misstated and the Group is managed and operated in a systematic manner.

          The Board exercises control through an organisation structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility, authority
          and appropriate reporting procedures. Management including the Managing Director is empowered by the
          Board and shall be responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing significant risks affecting
          the achievement of business objectives of the Group. The process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and
          managing risks is an on-going process. All significant issues identified and affecting the business objectives of
          the Group are reported to the Board accordingly.

          The key elements and processes of risk management and internal control system in place throughout the
          Group include:

          1. Defined delegation of responsibilities to Board Committees, namely the Audit and Risk Management
                 Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and to operating units with clearly defined areas
                 of responsibility, authority limits and operational authorities for all aspects of the business;

          2. Involvement of the Group Managing Director in the day-to-day operations of the Group and attendance
                 at operational and management level meetings, monitoring adherence to the Group’s policies and
                 procedures. The Group Managing Director has regular reviews on the operational, financial and strategic
                 issues and challenges affecting the respective business units with the heads of business units. Significant
                 matters identified during these meetings are highlighted to the Board on a timely basis; and

          3.	The Board is briefed and updated on the operational performance and corporate development of the
                 Group by the Group Managing Director and on the financial performance of the Group by the Chief
                 Financial Officer on quarterly basis;

          The Internal Audit function of the Group is outsourced to an independent professional Internal Audit service
          provider that reports to the Audit and Risk Management Committee.The Group adopts a risk-based approach
          in identifying major operation areas that warrant Internal Audit review and assessment to be carried out taking
          into consideration corporate exercises proposed or/and undertaken by the Group. The Internal Auditors carry
          out reviews on areas which are identified by Management as warranting attention and to assess the adequacy
          and effectiveness of the control processes to address the risks and recommend improvements to strengthen the
          control processes, where appropriate.

58
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                    STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                                   AND INTERNAL CONTROL

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

The Internal Auditors perform Internal Audits on major operating units and other management areas deemed
appropriate within the Group. Based on their assessment, the Internal Auditors will provide the Audit and Risk
Management Committee with reports highlighting their observations, recommendations and corrective action
taken by Management to ensure adequacy, integrity and appropriate improvements to the system of internal
control. Follow-up Internal Audits to assess implementation of past audit findings are also carried out to ensure
effectiveness of the system of internal control implemented.

The Audit and Risk Management Committee has formalised the Risk Management Framework and Policies
of the Group. Under the Risk Management Framework, the Audit and Risk Management Committee oversees
the risk management process of the Group, and it is assisted by Risk Management Working Groups (“RMWG”)
formed at subsidiary level.

Risks are assessed by the RMWG by employing the following methodologies:

• Identification of risks by the process owners
• Assessment of the likelihood and impact of the risks identified
• Evaluating the control strategies in relation to the risks
• Formulating action plan to address control deficiencies
• Setting Key Risk Indicators to monitor the risks

The Board is generally satisfied with the existing system of risk management and internal control which has
not resulted in any significant breakdown or weaknesses that could give rise to material losses incurred by the
Group during the financial year under review or require disclosure in the 2024 Annual Report. Nevertheless, the
Board recognises the review and improvement to the existing system of risk management and internal control
is an on-going process to accommodate evolving business needs. The Board believes that with the assistance
from the Internal Auditors, the system of internal control of the Group could be closely managed, monitored and
improved over time.

CONCLUSION

The risk management and internal control system of the Group, comprising the respective frameworks,
procedures, management processes and monitoring processes described in this statement, is considered
appropriate. While the Board acknowledges that the risk management and internal control system does not
eliminate the possibility of collusion or deliberate circumvention of procedures by employees, human errors
and/or other unforeseen circumstances that might result in poor judgement, an assurance was received from
the Group Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that the risk management and internal control system
of the Group is operating adequately and effectively. The Group continues to take measures to enhance and
strengthen the risk management and internal controls environment.

REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS

The external auditors of REX have reviewed this Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of REX for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024. Their review was conducted in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (Revised: February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to, and they did not consider whether this Statement covers all
risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and control
procedures. AAPG 3 also does not require the external auditors to consider whether the processes described to
deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the Annual Report will, in fact,
remedy the problems. Based on the review of the external auditors, they have reported to the Board that nothing
has come to the attention of the external auditors that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent
with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the
risk management and internal control system.

This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has been approved by the Board of REX on 24 October
2024.

                                                                                                                                         59
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
    INFORMATION

    In conformance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the following
    information is provided: -

    1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals

           A. Renounceable rights issue of 164,417,645 new ordinary shares in Rex (“Rex Share(s)”or“Share(s)”)
                   (“Rights Share(s)”) on the basis of 1 Rights Share for every 3 existing Rex Shares held, together
                   with 54,805,881 free detachable warrants in Rex (“Warrant(s)”) on the basis of 1 Warrant for every
                   3 Rights Shares subscribed (“Rights Issue with Warrants”)

           	The Company had on 30 August 2022 completed the above Proposed Rights Issue with Warrants.The
                   Renounceable Rights Issue had raised gross proceeds of RM16,441,765.The status of the utilisation of
                   proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -

    Details of          Proposed       Actual     Balance    Timeframe for
    utilisation         Utilisation  Utilisation  RM’000    Utilisation after
                                                           Extension of Time
    Business expansion   RM’000       RM’000        4,466
                          10,000       (5,534)         –   Within 30 months
    Working capital        5,882       (5,882)         –
                                        (560)
    Expenses for this       560                     4,466
    corporate exercise               (11,976)
                          16,442
    Total

    B. Disposal by Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rex Industry Berhad, of the
           following:-

           i. All that piece of land and hereditaments measuring 24,377 square metres held under No.
                   Hakmilik PN 6849, Lot 3826, Mukim 13, Daerah Seberang Perai Tengah, Negeri Pulau Pinang
                   together with beverages & canning factories, warehouses and a 3-storey office block erected
                   thereon bearing the address Plot 125,Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,Taman Perindustrian
                   Bukit Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai, Pulau Pinang; and

           ii. All that piece of land and hereditaments measuring 7,051 square metres held under No.
                   Hakmilik PN 10414, Lot 7067, Mukim 13, Daerah Seberang Perai Tengah, Negeri Pulau Pinang
                   together with the building erected thereon bearing the address Plot 126, Jalan Perindustrian
                   Bukit Minyak 5, Taman Perindustrian Bukit Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai,
                   Pulau Pinang;

60
                                                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                        ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
                                                                           INFORMATION

                                                                                          (Cont’d)

1. Utilisation of Proceeds raised from Corporate Proposals (cont’d)

       B. (CONT’D)

               For a total disposal consideration of RM41.80 million to be satisfied entirely via cash

       	The Company had on 30 September 2024 completed the above Proposed Disposal.The status of the
               utilisation of proceeds derived from this corporate proposal is as follows: -

Details of          Proposed       Actual               Balance     Timeframe for
utilisation         Utilisation  Utilisation            RM’000         Utilisation
                                                         16,108
Repayment of bank    RM’000       RM’000                          Within 12 months
borrowings            21,046       (4,938)               15,144
                                                           445    Within 24 months
Working capital       16,803       (1,659)                        Within 3 months
                       3,951       (3,506)               31,697
Expenses for this
corporate exercise    41,800     (10,103)

Total

2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees

       During the FYE 2024, External Auditors have rendered certain audit and non-audit services to the Company
       and the Group. A breakdown of the fees paid is as follows:-

Item                                                    Company   Group
                                                           (RM)    (RM)
Audit services rendered
                                                          55,000  208,770
Statutory audit in respect of the FYE 2024
                                                           8,000   8,000
Non-audit services rendered                               21,000  21,000

a) Review of Statement of Risk Management and Internal
       Control

b) Review of Component Auditors’ working papers

3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests

       There are no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’
       interests or are still subsisting, since the end of the previous financial year ended 30 June 2023.

                                                                                                                  61
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
    INFORMATION

    (Cont’d)

    4. Recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature (“RRPTs”)
           The RRPTs entered into by the Group during FYE 2024 were as follows:-

    Nature of RRPTs            RRPTs entered into    Interested Directors   Aggregate value of
                               between the Group     and/or interested     RRPTs during FYE 2024
                               with related parties  major shareholders
                                                     • Darmendran                      (RM)
    Vehicle fleet management •   Rex Canning Co.                                      97,487
    services provided by         Sdn. Bhd.                  Kunaretnam1
    Safworks Sdn. Bhd. •         Rex Trading         • Eighth Jewels2               4,515,304
    (“Safworks”)                 Sdn. Bhd.
                                                     • Darmendran                     44,274
    Transportation, freight    • Rex Canning                Kunaretnam1
                                      Co Sdn. Bhd.
    handling services and                            • Eighth Jewels2
                               • Rex Trading
    warehouse management              Sdn. Bhd.      Chee Cheng Chun3

    provided by Airoceanic     • PT Rex Canning
                               • Summit
    Express     Sdn.  Bhd.     	Teamtrade (2011)

    (“Airoceanic”)    and             Sdn. Bhd.
                               • Cinta Edar (M)
    Safeguards        Oceanic
                                      Sdn. Bhd.
    Sdn. Bhd. (“Safeguards

    Oceanic”)

    Purchase of air tickets •    Rex Canning
    and tour arrangement         Co Sdn. Bhd.
    from Gem Travel Sdn. Bhd. •  Rex Trading
    (“Gem Travel”)               Sdn. Bhd.

    Notes:

    The following Directors and/or major shareholders of REX are deemed interested:

    (1) Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam is a Director and major shareholder of the Company. He is a director of
           Safworks and Airoceanic.

    (2) Eighth Jewels Systems Sdn. Bhd. (“Eighth Jewels”) is the ultimate holding company of Safworks,
           Airoceanic and Safeguards Oceanic. Mr. Darmendran Kunaretnam is a director and controlling
           shareholder of Eighth Jewels.

    (3) Mr. Chee Cheng Chun is a Director and major shareholder of the Company. He is a director and
           controlling shareholder of Gem Travel.

62
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                         & ANALYSIS

Our History and Business

Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by
the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd.The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of
Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding
company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ("Bursa Securities"). The
Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited
company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa
Securities on 29 November 1995.

Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning
Co. Sdn. Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading
manufacturer, distributor and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia. PT
Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began commercial operations in August 1992; with principal activities in
manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent standards set by
the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. Most of the PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the
US and EU.

Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing
population.

Our Policy

Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They
are implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance
with local and international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices.

Financial Performance

For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2024, the Group recorded a revenue of RM130.52 million which
represents a reduction of approximately RM31.89 million when compared to the preceding financial year of
RM162.41 million. The decline in revenue was mainly due to weaker demand from both local and overseas
market.

The Group recorded a loss before tax of RM4.18 million for FYE 30 June 2024 when compared to preceding
financial year’s loss of RM43.41 million.The huge loss in the preceding financial year was due to additional cost
incurred in relation to the decommissioning of Bukit Minyak facility for one-off impairment of the plants’ fixed
assets, provision allowance of inventories obsolescence and staff retrenchment cost.

The lower loss in this financial year was mainly attributed to cost control initiatives instituted and better operational
efficiencies from the business rationalisation plan.

REX GROUP                  		        FY 2022    FY 2023   FY 2024
(All in RM’000)
Revenue                   		         161,111    162,408   130,522
(Loss)/Profit before tax        			      2,934  (43,414)    (4,181)

The Board is committed to continue with prudent measures to improve the Group’s financial performance and
deliver satisfactory results taking cognizance of the prevailing business environment.

                                                                                                                                         63
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
    & ANALYSIS

    (Cont’d)

    Financial Highlights                                                                   30 Jun 23  30 Jun 24
                                                                                              RM’000     RM’000
                                                            30 Jun 20 30 Jun 21 30 Jun 22
    	RM’000	RM’000	RM’000
    Statement of Profit and Loss

    Revenue                          149,245  160,539  161,111                             162,408    130,522

    				

    (Loss)/Profit before Tax after

    Minority Interest                (8,396)  3,912    2,934                               (43,414)   (4,181)

    					

    Interest expense                 2,050    1,531    1,171                               1,617      1,707

    (Loss)/Profit after Tax and      (9,465)  2,603    2,027                               (44,399)   (4,167)
    Minority Interest

    Dividend declared                –        (987)    –                                   –          –
     
    Statement of Financial Position

    Paid-up Share Capital            73,742   97,903   97,903                              113,717    113,717

    Shareholders Funds               101,891  127,404  129,714                             103,562    96,361

    Borrowings                       42,209   28,884   27,804                              31,766     24,849

    Net Tangible Assets (“NTA”)      94,854   120,367  122,677                             96,525     89,324

    Financial Ratio
    					
    Investment Ratio

    NTA per share                    0.38     0.24     0.25                                0.15       0.14

    					

    Basic (Loss)/Earnings

     Per Share (Sen)                 (3.84)   0.64     0.38                                (7.04)     (0.63)

    Dividend per share (sen)         –        0.2      –                                   –          –

    Operating Ratio					

    					

    After tax return on

      shareholders’ fund (%)         (9.29)   2.04     1.56                                (42.87)    (4.32)

    Pre-tax profit margin (%)        (5.63)   2.44     1.82                                (26.73)    (3.20)

    Financial Ratio					

    Gearing (times)                  0.42     0.23     0.22                                0.31       0.26

    Interest Coverage ratio          (3.10)   3.55     3.51                                (25.85)    (1.45)

    					

    Liquidity ratio

    Current ratio                    1.32     1.87     1.79                                1.67       2.04

    Quick ratio                      0.61     0.93     0.83                                0.77       1.08

    Note:

    1) Basic (Loss)/Earning per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit after tax

    attributable to owners of the parent by weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial

64  year.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                               MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
                                                                                                        & ANALYSIS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.

CORPORATE EXERCISE
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has completed the disposal of the land
and buildings bearing the address plot 125 & 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5,Taman Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai, Pulau Pinang for a disposal consideration of RM41.80 million
on 30 September 2024.
The proceeds from the disposal will be utilised firstly to repay bank borrowings, secondly for working capital
required on day-to day operations of the Group and lastly to defray expenses related to the disposal.

Outlook and Prospects
The Group expects the business environment in the remaining year to remain challenging due to uncertainties
that pose risks to business including the on-going global geopolitical tensions, inflationary pressures and rising
costs of raw materials, packaging materials together with uncertainities in logistic cost and availability.
The Group will continue to focus on improving our performance through product innovation, new product
launches, improving operational efficiency, adopting cost saving measures and broadening the distribution
network to grow the Group’s revenue and profitability.

Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board, I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our new Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Mr Hong Kok Cheong and new Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, Mr Tam Kok
Meng, who have been appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024. Their combined experiences and expertise
will contribute positively to the strategies and direction of the Group.
I would like to record our appreciation to previous members of the Board,Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim and Mr Tai
Keat Chai for their invaluable contributions to the Company during their tenures as Directors of the Company.
I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their
continued support, trust, and unwavering confidence over the past years.
To all our staff and management team, thank you for your dedication and commitment in driving the Company
to greater heights.

DAMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Group Managing Director

                                                                                                                                         65
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    ANALYSIS OF
    SHAREHOLDINGS

    AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024

    Class of Securities             : Ordinary Shares
    Total Number of Holders         : 1,572
    Number of Issued Share Capital  : 657,670,581
    Voting Rights                   : One (1) vote per Ordinary Share

    DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS

    		 No. of 		 No. of

    Size of Shareholdings		 Shareholders                                %        Shares Held               %

    1 – 99		                                           34               2.16     952                   0.00
    100 – 1,000		                                                                                      0.01
    1,001 – 10,000		                                   158              10.05    65,917                0.44
    10,001 – 100,000		                                                                                 4.18
    100,001 – 32,883,528 (*)		                         468              29.77    2,873,867            65.45
    32,883,529 and above (**)		                                                                       29.92
                                                       695              44.21    27,496,267
                                                                                                    100.00
                                                       215              13.68    430,470,712

                                                       2                0.13     196,762,866

    TOTAL		 1,572                                                       100.00   657,670,581

    Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Shares
                     ** 5% and above of Issued Shares

    SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

    The names of the substantial shareholders of Rex Industry Berhad and their respective shareholdings based on
    the Register of Substantial Shareholders of the Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:

                                                       Direct Interest           Deemed Interest

    		                                                 No. of		                  No. of

    Substantial Shareholders		 Shares Held                              %        Shares Held        %

    Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd. 		 183,577,800                              27.91                    –        –
                                                                        12.68    183,577,800 (1)    27.91
    Darmendran A/L Kunaretnam		 83,399,603                                       183,577,800 (1)    27.91
                                                                              –
    Chee Cheng Chun 		                                 –

    Notes:

    (1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
           Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

66
                                                                                        Annual Report 2024

                                                                                 ANALYSIS OF
                                                                           SHAREHOLDINGS

                                                                                           (Cont’d)

DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS

The Directors’ Shareholdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the
Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:

                          Direct Interest                                  Deemed Interest

		 No. of		 No. of

Directors		 Shares Held                                           %        Shares Held        %

Hong Kok Cheong		         –                                             –                  –        –
                                                                  12.68    183,577,800 (1)    27.91
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603                                         183,577,800 (1)    27.91
                                                                        –
Chee Cheng Chun		         –                                             –                  –        –
                                                                        –                  –        –
Tam Kok Meng 		           –                                             –        100,000(2)    0.02
                                                                        –                  –        –
Adnan bin Ahmad		–

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		    –

Chris Kong Wai Fa		       –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
       Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
       held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.

THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)

No. Name of Shareholders                                                           No. of       (%)
                                                                                  Shares      23.01
1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                                 151,352,200
                                                                            45,410,666         6.90
2. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)              32,640,900         4.96
                                                                            32,225,600         4.90
3. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd.
                                                                            32,033,866         4.87
4. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                        28,997,200         4.41
        (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)            21,306,666         3.24
                                                                            20,954,800         3.19
5. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.                                                      17,990,300         2.74

6. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.                                                       14,560,672         2.21
                                                                            13,273,733         2.02
7. Thevandran A/L K Ragavan                                                 12,024,600         1.83

8. Melody Station Sdn. Bhd.

9. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Siew Lai)

10. Darmendran Kunaretnam

11. Taiko Voyage Sdn. Bhd.

12. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Kamlesh Kumar)

                                                                                                              67
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    ANALYSIS OF
    SHAREHOLDINGS

    (Cont’d)

    THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
    (CONT’D)
    (without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same persons)

    No. Name of Shareholders                                                           No. of    (%)
                                                                                      Shares     1.75
    13. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                              11,481,066       1.59
            (Pledged Securities Account for Teo Kwee Hock)                      10,477,066       1.43
                                                                                  9,415,600      1.32
    14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                     8,650,666      1.30
            (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))       8,533,333      1.23
                                                                                  8,068,266      1.10
    15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                     7,216,000      1.04
            (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)           6,826,666      1.01
                                                                                  6,666,666      1.00
    16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                              6,600,000      1.00
            (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)                          6,596,000      0.99
                                                                                  6,531,066      0.80
    17. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                  5,292,100      0.77
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))       5,040,000      0.73
                                                                                  4,772,700      0.70
    18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                     4,602,000      0.65
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                4,266,666      0.41
                                                                                  2,666,666    83.09
    19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                   546,473,730
            (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)

    20. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587))

    21. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd.

    22. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Tang Kam Sing (E-KTN))

    23. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
            Exempt An for Aham Asset Management Berhad (TSTAC/CLNTT)

    24. Haridas A/L Suppiah

    25. Kuek Boon Siang

    26. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)

    27. Securicor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

    28. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Tay Ben Chuan)

    29. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))

    30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))

    TOTAL

68
                                                                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                                            ANALYSIS OF
                                                             WARRANT A HOLDINGS

                                                                                    AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024

Class of Securities                      : Warrants A
Number of Outstanding Warrants A Issued  : 54,805,755
Total Number of Holders                  : 382
Exercise Ratio                           : 1 Warrant for 1 Ordinary Share
Maturity Date                            : 23 August 2027

DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANT A HOLDINGS

Size of Warrant A Holdings

                                                       No. of 		                        No. of
                                                                                 Warrants A
                            Warrant A Holders                           %                                 %

1 – 99                                                 40               10.47    1,895                0.00
100 – 1,000                                                                                           0.06
1,001 – 10,000                                         61               15.97    31,537               1.02
10,001 – 100,000                                                                                      5.23
100,001 – 2,740,286 (*)                                149              39.01    558,184             47.56
2,740,287 and above (**)                                                                             46.13
                                                       82               21.47    2,865,871
                                                                                                   100.00
                                                       45               11.78    26,066,436

                                                       5                1.31     25,281,832

TOTAL                                                  382              100.00   54,805,755

				

Remarks: * Less than 5% of Issued Warrants A
                 ** 5% and above of Issued Warrants A

DIRECTORS’ WARRANT A HOLDINGS

The Directors’ Warrant A Holdings of Rex Industry Berhad based on the Register of Directors’ Warrant Holdings of
the Company as at 4 October 2024 are as follows:

                                                       Direct Interest           Deemed Interest

                                                       No. of		                  No. of

                                         Warrants A 		                           Warrants A

Directors                                              Held             %        Held              %

Hong Kok Cheong                                        –                      –                 –        –
                                                                        12.68    14,525,866 (1)    26.50
Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965                                                14,525,866 (1)    26.50
                                                                              –
Chee Cheng Chun		                                      –                      –                 –        –
                                                                              –                 –        –
Tam Kok MEng		                                         –                      –        33,333 (2)   0.06
                                                                              –                 –        –
Adnan bin Ahmad		–

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim		                                 –

Chris Kong Wai Fa                                      –

Notes:

(1) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of his interest in Daiman
       Taipan Sdn. Bhd.

(2) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 59(11) of the Companies Act 2016 by virtue of the shareholdings
       held by his spouse, Madam Kok Jin Ling.

                                                                                                                                  69
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    ANALYSIS OF
    WARRANT A HOLDINGS

    (Cont’d)

    THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER 2024
    (without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)

    No. Name of Shareholders                                                        No. of    (%)
                                                                                  Shares    19.02
    1. Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.                                               10,423,733
                                                                              4,204,700      7.67
    2. Warrants Capital Limited                                               4,102,133      7.48

    3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      3,756,000      6.85
            (Pledged Securities Account for Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.)
                                                                              2,795,266      5.10
    4. CGS-International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.               2,669,488      4.87
            (Pledged Securities Account for Hee Yuen Sang (MY2105))           2,534,222      4.62

    5. Vivadoor Sdn. Bhd.                                                     2,463,389      4.49
                                                                              1,925,000      3.51
    6. Innoteguh Sdn. Bhd.                                                    1,445,300      2.64
                                                                              1,130,200      2.06
    7. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                      1,105,000      2.02
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)                           1.79
                                                                                 982,300     1.60
    8. Darmendran Kunaretnam                                                     877,255
                                                                                             1.43
    9. Chai Mei Ling                                                             784,666
                                                                                             1.32
    10. Voon Jye Wah                                                             720,888
                                                                                             1.30
    11. Sterling Honour Sdn. Bhd.                                                711,111
                                                                                             1.23
    12. Hee Yuen Sang                                                            672,355
                                                                                             1.10
    13. GV Asia Fund Limited                                                     601,333
                                                                                             1.08
    14. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                    593,600
            (Pledged Securities Account for Thevandran A/L K Ragavan (021))

    15. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Mohd Ibrahim bin Mohd Zain)

    16. Malacca Equity Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Ng L’Yp-Hau)

    17. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (MY2013))

    18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam)

    19. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
            (Pledged Securities Account for Kuek Boon Siang)

    20. Muhamad Fairiezal Bin Basri

70
                                                                                                      Annual Report 2024

                                                                                        ANALYSIS OF
                                                                         WARRANT A HOLDINGS

                                                                                                     (Cont’d)

THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANT A HOLDERS BASED ON RECORD OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 4 OCTOBER
2024 (CONT’D)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)

No. Name of Shareholders                                                        No. of    (%)
                                                                               Shares     1.04
21. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                               568,888
        (Pledged Securities Account for Darmendran Kunaretnam (7000587)                   1.01
                                                                              555,555     0.93
22. Southern Realty Resource Sdn. Bhd.                                        507,200     0.77
                                                                              420,000
23. Samsuri Bin Daud                                                                      0.65
                                                                              355,555
24. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.                                                    0.60
        (Pledged Securities Account for Chen Siew Cheen)                      329,000     0.58
                                                                              316,833     0.47
25. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd.                                           258,000
        (Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore Bch))                       0.46
                                                                              249,400     0.41
26. Chai Mei Ling                                                             222,222
                                                                                        88.09
27. Ewe Hong Khoon                                                       48,280,592

28. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Ng Yong Leng (E-IMO))

29. See Chong Gay

30. AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.
        (Pledged Securities Account for Choo Keng Weng (7003043))

TOTAL

                                                                                                                          71
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    CORPORATE
    STRUCTURE

    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

             199301027926 (282664-K)

                         100%         Rex Canning Co Sdn Bhd

                         100%             Rex Trading Sdn Bhd

                         100%  Fika Foods Corporation Sdn Bhd

                         30%              P.T. REX CANNING

                                     70%

                         100%  Summit Teamtrade (2011) Sdn Bhd

                         100%             Cinta Edar (M) Sdn Bhd

                         100%             Best Aqua Food Sdn Bhd

                         100%             Rex Foods Sdn Bhd

                         100%  Gainasia International Limited

72
                                                                                                                         Annual Report 2024

                                                                                 DIRECTORS’
                                                                                       REPORT

                                                         FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024

The Directors hereby present their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.

1. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

	The Company is an investment holding company.The principal activities of the subsidiaries companies are
       as stated in Note 15 to the financial statements.

       There has been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

2. RESULTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR

				 GROUP                                                          COMPANY
                                                                               RM
				RM
                                                                        419,244
				

Loss for the financial year, net of tax attributable to

 Owners of the Company				                               4,167,260

3. DIVIDENDS
       No dividend has been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.

4. RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
	There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions except as disclosed in the financial

       statements.

5. ISSUANCE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
	The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.

6. WARRANTS 2022/2027
       During the financial year, no warrants were exercised. As at 30 June 2024, the total number of Warrants
       2022/2027 that remained unexercised were 54,805,755.

	The salient features and other terms of the Warrants 2022/2027 are disclosed in Note 23(b) to the financial
       statements.
       Details of Warrants 2022/2027 issued to Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Interests section of this
       report.

 

                                                                                                                                             73
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    DIRECTORS’
    REPORT

    (Cont’d)

    7. OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES

    	No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial
           year.

    8. DIRECTORS

    	The Directors who have held office since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report are
           as follows:

    Adnan Bin Ahmad                                                      (Appointed on 13 March 2024)
    Chee Cheng Chun*                                                     (Appointed on 13 March 2024)
    Darmendran Kunaretnam*
    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim*                                                  (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
    Kong Wai Fa*                                                           (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
    Hong Kok Cheong
    Tam Kok Meng
    Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim Bin Mohd Zain
    Tai Keat Chai

    *	These Directors are also Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries.

    	The name of the Directors of the Company’s subsidiaries in office since the beginning of the financial year
           to the date of this report (not including those Directors listed above) are:

    Drs. Lody Joko Susilo                                                      (Resigned on 31 March 2024)
    Vong Nee Toh

    9. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS

    According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the
    interests of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
    related corporations, if any, during the financial year are as follows:

    		                                                       Number of Ordinary Shares

    			At			At

    			01.07.2023                                            Bought            Sold 30.06.2024

    			Unit                                                              Unit  Unit     Unit

    Name of Directors
    Ordinary shares in the Company

    Direct interests:

    Darmendran Kunaretnam		 83,399,603                                   –     – 83,399,603

    Indirect interests:                       174,310,400    9,267,400         – 183,577,800
    Darmendran Kunaretnam*
    - Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		               174,310,400    9,267,400         – 183,577,800
    Chee Cheng Chun*                                100,000              –
    - Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		                                                –        100,000
    Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		

74
                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                              DIRECTORS’
                                                                    REPORT

                                                                     (Cont’d)

9. DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (cont’d)

According to the register of Directors’ shareholdings under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, the
interests of Directors in office at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of the Company and its
related corporations, if any, during the financial year are as follows:

		                                        Number of Warrants

			At		 Sold/                                                                 At
                                                                 30.06.2024
			01.07.2023                             Bought Conversion
                                                                           Unit
			Unit                                   Unit  Unit

Warrants shareholding registered

  in the name of Directors

In the Company					

Direct interest:

Darmendran Kunaretnam		 6,949,965         –                   –  6,949,965

Indirect interest:

Darmendran Kunaretnam*

- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 14,525,866    –                   – 14,525,866

Chee Cheng Chun*

- Daiman Taipan Sdn. Bhd.		 14,525,866    –                   – 14,525,866

Dato’ Cheah Teng Lim^		           33,333  –                   –  33,333

       * Deemed interested via shareholding in a related corporation pursuant to Section 8(4) of the
               Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.

       ^ Indirect interest by virtue of shares held by his spouse pursuant to Section 59 and 197 of the Companies
               Act 2016 in Malaysia.

	The other Directors in office at the end of the financial year had no interest in the ordinary shares and
       warrants of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year.

10. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

	The amount of fees and other benefits paid to or receivable by the Directors or past Directors of the
       Company and the estimated money value of any other benefits received or receivable by them otherwise
       than in cash from the Company and its subsidiaries for their services to the Company and its subsidiaries
       were disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.

       Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
       to receive any benefit (other than Directors’ emoluments received or due and receivable as disclosed
       in the financial statements or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company) by reason of a
       contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
       Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, except
       as disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements.

	There were no arrangements during or at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
       Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
       Company or any other body corporate.

                                                                                                                   75
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       DIRECTORS’
       REPORT

         (Cont’d)

         11. INDEMNIFYING DIRECTORS, OFFICERS OR AUDITORS

          	No indemnities have been given or insurance premiums paid, during or since the end of the year, for any
                 person who is or has been the Director, officer or auditor of the Company.

         12. OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION

                 Before the statements of financial position and statements of comprehensive income of the Group and of
                 the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:

                 (i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the
                         making of allowance for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had
                         been written off and adequate allowance had been made for doubtful debts; and

                 (ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary
                         course of business had been written down to their expected realisable values.

                 At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:

                 (i) which would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of allowance for doubtful
                         debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial
                         extent; or

                 (ii) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the
                         Group and of the Company misleading; or

                 (iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
                         of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.

          	No contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable within the
                 period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may
                 substantially affect the ability of the Group or of the Company to meet its obligations as and when they fall
                 due.

                 At the date of this report, there does not exist:

                 (i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
                         financial year which secures the liabilities of any other person; or

                 (ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of
                         the financial year.

                 At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this
                 report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the
                 Group and of the Company misleading.

                 In the opinion of the Directors, no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen
                 in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect
                 substantially the results of the operations of the Group or of the Company for the financial year in which
                 this report is made.

           

76
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                        DIRECTORS’
                                                                                                              REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)
13. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD

       Significant events during the financial year and events after the reporting period are disclosed in Note 36
       and Note 37 respectively to the financial statements.
14. AUDITORS
	The total amount receivable by the auditors as remuneration are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial
       statements.
	The auditors, Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan, Chartered Accountants, have expressed their willingness to
       continue in office.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24 October
2024.

HONG KOK CHEONG
Director

DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
Director

                                                                                                                                         77
            REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     STATEMENT BY
     DIRECTORS

         PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016

          We, Hong Kok Cheong and Darmendran Kunaretnam, being two of the Directors of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD,
          do hereby state that, in the opinion of the Directors, the accompanying financial statements set out on pages
          84 to 159 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International
          Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to
          give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024 and of
          their financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the Company for the financial year then ended.
          Approved and signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 24 October
          2024.

          HONG KOK CHEONG
          Director

          DARMENDRAN KUNARETNAM
          Director

     STATUTORY
     DECLARATION

         PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016

          I, Chia Hup Tong, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD,
          do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements set out on pages 84 to 159 are
          in my opinion correct, and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by
          virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.

          CHIA HUP TONG
          Officer
          Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named
          At Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 24 October 2024.
          Before me,
          THANGAPERUMAL A/L ANDIMUTHU
          W 919

78
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                      INDEPENDENT
                                                               AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                           TO THE MEMBERS OF REX INDUSTRY BERHAD 199301027926 (282664 - K)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Rex Industry Berhad, which comprise the statement of financial
position as at 30 June 2024 and the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of
changes in equity and statement of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then
ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of material accounting policies, as set out
on pages 84 to 159.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024, and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year
then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing.Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in Auditors’Responsibilities
for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment on goodwill
Goodwill on consolidation amounting to RM7,037,480 is disclosed in Note 16 to the financial statements and
is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any, as stated in Note 6(j) to the financial statements.
As stated in Note 5(b), the Group is required to, at least annually or more frequently when indication of
impairment exists, perform impairment assessment on goodwill that has an indefinite useful life. For the purpose
of performing impairment assessments, goodwill has been allocated to respective cash-generating unit
(“CGU”). Management have assessed the recoverable amounts of goodwill based on value in use of the CGU.

                                                                                                                                         79
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       INDEPENDENT
       AUDITORS’ REPORT

         (Cont’d)

         Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

          Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)

          Impairment assessment on investment in subsidiaries

          Investment in subsidiaries amounting to RM82,013,702 is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements and is
          carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses as stated in Note 6(a) to the financial statements.

          As stated in Note 5(e) to the financial statements, investment in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when
          events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.

          Lower net assets recorded by certain subsidiaries have resulted in an indication that the carrying amounts of
          investments in subsidiaries may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company estimated the recoverable amount of
          the investments in subsidiaries as the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and its value in use.

          Impairment assessment on property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)

          Property, plant and equipment amounting to RM38,167,611 is disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements
          and are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses as stated in Note
          6(g) to the financial statements.

          As stated in Note 5(a) to the financial statements, the Group reviews the carrying amount amounts of property,
          plant and equipment at each reporting date to assess whether there is any indicator of impairment.

          The Group has incurred loss of RM4,167,260. This gave rise to an indication that the carrying amounts of PPE
          may be impaired. Accordingly, the Group estimated the recoverable amounts of the PPE as the higher of fair
          value less cost of disposal and its value in use.

          Management have assessed recoverable amounts as the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value
          in use. We have identified the impairment assessments mentioned above as a key audit matters as the process
          of estimating value in use, requires significant judgement in applying the assumptions used, in particular,
          determining budgeted gross margins, growth rates and discount rates, used in the projections.

          How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters

          In addressing the Key Audit Matters, we have performed, among others, the following audit procedures:-

          • Evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used in performing the impairment assessment;

          • Tested the basis of preparing the cash flow forecasts taking into account the historical evidence and future
                 business strategies supporting the underlying assumptions;

          • Evaluated the key assumptions, in particular, the weighted-average cost of capital discount rate and
                 growth rate of sales by comparing against internal information;

          • Assessed the sensitivity of the cash flows to the changes in key assumptions used in the discounted cash
                 flows projections;

          • Assessed the basis in deriving the fair value less costs of disposal of certain PPE;

          • Assessed the net assets of the subsidiaries in deriving the recoverable amounts of the cost of investments;
                 and

          • Evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in the financial statements concerning those key
                 assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment assessment is most sensitive.

80
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     INDEPENDENT
                                                                                             AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is
to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements

The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do
so.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:

■ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
       Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
       and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
       not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
       fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
       control.

                                                                                                                                         81
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       INDEPENDENT
       AUDITORS’ REPORT

         (Cont’d)

         Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)

          Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)

          ■	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
                 are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
                 of the Group’s and the Company’s internal control.

          ■	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
                 estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.

          ■ Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and,
                 based on the audit evidence obtained,whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions
                 that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If
                 we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
                 the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
                 are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
                 to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and the
                 Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

          ■	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
                 the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
                 Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

          ■	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
                 activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.We are responsible
                 for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our
                 audit opinion.

          We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
          audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
          during our audit.

          We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
          regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
          reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, action taken to eliminate threats
          or safeguards applied.

          From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
          in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
          the key audit matters.We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public
          disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be
          communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected
          to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

          Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

          In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of
          which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.

82
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     INDEPENDENT
                                                                                             AUDITORS’ REPORT

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)
Other Matters
The financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were audited by another
firm of Chartered Accountants whose report dated 24 October 2023 expressed an unqualified opinion.
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
Signed at Kuala Lumpur on 24 October 2024.

RAKI CS TAN & RAMANAN
(AF 0190)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

HARICHANDRAN A/L A. RUBASUNDRAM
(NO. 02931/07/2025 J)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
PARTNER			

                                                                                                                                         83
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

STATEMENT OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024

                                                    Group                                                         Company

		2024                                                     2023     2024                                                   2023

                                Note   RM                  RM       RM                                                     RM

Continuing operations           7 130,522,286 162,408,090                      –                                                 –
Revenue
                                                                               –                                                 –
Changes in inventories		 (10,747,561)                  (6,482,134)
                                                                               –                                                 –
Raw materials and                                   (111,457,480)   (102,450)                                           (89,100)
                                                     (23,357,395)
  consumables used		 (84,506,576)                      (4,656,957)             –                                                 –
                                                     (35,244,942)   (320,375)                                         (292,896)
Staff cost		 (17,062,213)                              (3,336,868)
                                                                               –                                                 –
Depreciation		 (1,966,663)                           (20,633,216)
                                                           963,849             –                                  (30,745,462)
Other expenses		(20,453,302)                                            3,581                                                    –

Impairment loss on financial assets		  –                            (419,244)                                     (31,127,458)
                                                                               –                                                 –
Impairment loss on

  non-financial assets		               (201,036)

Other income                    8      1,941,054

Loss from operations		 (2,474,011) (41,797,053)

Finance costs                   9(d)   (1,706,849) (1,616,892)

Loss before tax from            9      (4,180,860) (43,413,945)     (419,244)                                     (31,127,458)
  continuing operations                                                        –                                                 –
Tax benefit/(expense)           10     13,600       (985,180)
                                                                    (419,244)                                     (31,127,458)
Loss for the financial year		 (4,167,260) (44,399,125)

Other comprehensive                    (3,210,946)     2,098,635                                               –           –
  loss, net of tax
Item that may be reclassified                            335,128
  subsequently to profit or loss                       2,433,763
Foreign currency translation		                      (41,965,362)

Item that will not be reclassified     176,804                                                                 –           –
  subsequently to profit or loss
Defined benefit plan actuarial gain		

Total other comprehensive                                                                                      –           –
  loss for the financial year		(3,034,142)

Total comprehensive loss                                            (419,244) (31,127,458)
  for the financial year		 (7,201,402)

Loss attributable to:                  (4,167,260) (44,399,125)     (419,244) (31,127,458)
Owners of the Company		

Total comprehensive loss

  attributable to:

Owners of the Company		 (7,201,402) (41,965,362)                    (419,244) (31,127,458)

						

		

Basic loss per ordinary

  share attributable to Owners

  of the Company (sen):

- Basic/Diluted                 11     (0.63)              (7.04)

                                       The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

84
                                                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                                  STATEMENT OF
                                                        FINANCIAL POSITION

                                                                               AS AT 30 JUNE 2024

                                                 Group                              Company

		2024                                                  2023       2024                      2023

                               Note  RM                 RM         RM                        RM

ASSETS                         12    38,167,611  52,239,323                      –                –
Non-Current Assets                                                               –                –
Property, plant and equipment  13    415,145     5,576,472                       –                –
Right-of-use assets                                                82,013,702       82,013,702
Investment properties          14    5,194,425   5,505,572                       –                –
Investments in subsidiaries
Goodwill on consolidation      15    –                  –          82,013,702       82,013,702

                               16    7,037,480   7,037,480

		50,814,661                                     70,358,847

Current Assets

Inventories                    17    49,679,470   58,045,582                     –                –
                                                  28,669,726                     –                –
Trade receivables              18    22,788,365                          23,884           30,331
                                                    2,879,181            31,320           31,320
Other receivables              19    2,931,647         187,256
                                                                                 –                –
Tax recoverable		813,850                               936,589           22,637           22,018
                                                  17,427,480
Fixed deposits with                                                      77,841           83,669
                                                 108,145,814                     –                –
  licensed banks               20    893,677                    –
                                                                         77,841           83,669
Cash and bank balances		             8,338,811   108,145,814
                                                                   82,091,543       82,097,371
		 85,445,820                                    178,504,661

Assets held for sale           21    19,565,851

		105,011,671

TOTAL ASSETS		155,826,332

                      The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                                                                                                       85
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

STATEMENT OF
FINANCIAL POSITION

(Cont’d)

                                                 Group                                                            Company

		2024                                                  2023       2024                                                    2023

                          Note  RM                      RM         RM                                                      RM

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

Share capital             22 113,716,680         113,716,680       113,716,680                                    113,716,680
                                                   (1,568,467)                    –                                              –
Reserves                  23    (4,779,413)        (8,585,964)
                                                                   (35,298,459)                                   (34,879,215)
Accumulated losses		 (12,576,420)

Total equity attributable to                     103,562,249       78,418,221                                     78,837,465
  owners of the Company		96,360,847

Non-current liabilities   24    6,388,966        8,178,974                                                     –           –
Borrowings
Deferred tax liabilities  25    1,463,585        1,477,185                                                     –           –
Lease liabilities
                          26    228,019          477,939                                                       –           –

		 8,080,570                                     10,134,098                                                    –           –

Current liabilities

Trade payables            27    14,779,836        20,010,259                     –                                              –
                                14,517,541        17,609,197           164,954                                        127,583
Other payables            28
                                 3,536,175          3,296,408                    –                                              –
Rebate liability          29                  –                 –   3,508,368                                      3,132,323

Amounts due to subsidiaries		   18,459,673        23,586,617                     –                                              –
                                      91,690           226,342                   –                                              –
Borrowings                24                  –         79,491                   –                                              –

Lease liabilities         26                      64,808,314        3,673,322                                      3,259,906

Tax payable		                                     74,942,412        3,673,322                                      3,259,906

		51,384,915                                     178,504,661       82,091,543                                     82,097,371

Total liabilities		59,465,485

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		155,826,332

                                       The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

86
                                                       Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                       Non-distributable                                 	 Distributable

							 Retained

							 Earnings/

		                               Share    Other        Translation        Warrants                       Total (Accumulated   Total
                                                                                                                             Equity
                           Note  Capital  Reserve      Reserve            Reserve   Reserves                 Losses)
                                                                                                                                RM
		RM                                      RM           RM                 RM                             RM  RM

Group                                     (2,092,584)  (1,568,467) 2,092,584        (1,568,467)              (8,585,964) 103,562,249
At 1 July 2023		 113,716,680

Foreign currency

  translation difference		

  for foreign operations		       –        –            (3,210,946)        –         (3,210,946)                      –       (3,210,946)
                                                                                                             176,804            176,804
Defined benefit plan 		

  actuarial gain		               –        –            –                  –                              –

Total other comprehensive

  (loss)/income for the

  financial year		               –        –            (3,210,946)        –         (3,210,946)              176,804 (3,034,142)

Loss for the financial year		    –        –            –                  –                              –   (4,167,260) (4,167,260)

Total comprehensive loss

  for the financial year		       –        –            (3,210,946)        –         (3,210,946)              (3,990,456) (7,201,402)

At 30 June 2024		 113,716,680             (2,092,584)  (4,779,413) 2,092,584        (4,779,413) (12,576,420) 96,360,847

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                        STATEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                    CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024

87
                                 The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                                                                      STATEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                  CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

88
                                                            Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                            Non-distributable                              	 Distributable

							 Retained

							 Earnings/

		                                 Share       Other        Translation        Warrants                    Total (Accumulated   Total
                                                                                                                               Equity
                             Note  Capital     Reserve      Reserve            Reserve    Reserves             Losses)
                                                                                                                                  RM
		RM                                           RM           RM                 RM                          RM  RM

Group (Cont’d)                     97,903,444  –            (3,667,102)        –          (3,667,102)          35,478,033 129,714,375
At 1 July 2022		

Foreign currency		

  translation difference									

  for foreign operation		          –           –            2,098,635          –          2,098,635            –               2,098,635

Defined benefit plan			

  actuarial gain		                 –           –            –                  –                           –   335,128         335,128

Total other comprehensive

  income for the financial year		  –           –            2,098,635          –          2,098,635            335,128         2,433,763

Loss for the financial year		      –           –            –                  –                           –   (44,399,125) (44,399,125)

Total comprehensive

  income/(loss) for the

  financial year		                 –           –            2,098,635          –          2,098,635            (44,063,997) (41,965,362)

Transaction with Owners

  of the Company

Rights issue with warrants,  22,

  net of transaction costs   23 15,813,236     (2,092,584)  –                  2,092,584                   –   – 15,813,236

At 30 June 2023		 113,716,680                  (2,092,584)  (1,568,467) 2,092,584         (1,568,467)          (8,585,964) 103,562,249

                                   The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
                                                                      Attributable to Owners of the Company

                                                            Non-distributable                                      	 Distributable

			                                             Share          Other     Warrants        Total                        Accumulated        Total
                                                            Reserve       Reserve   Reserves                                    Losses  Equity
		 Note                                         Capital                                                                             RM
                                                                  RM            RM         RM                                              RM
			RM

Company                                                     –                  –                                   –  (3,751,757) 94,151,687
At 1 July 2022			 97,903,444

Loss for the financial year, representing

  total comprehensive income for the

  financial year			                             –           –                  –                                   –  (31,127,458) (31,127,458)

Transaction with Owners of the Company     22,
Rights issue with warrants, net of		
transaction costs		                        23   15,813,236  (2,092,584)  2,092,584                                 –  – 15,813,236
                                                            (2,092,584)  2,092,584
At 30 June 2023			 113,716,680                                                                                     –  (34,879,215) 78,837,465

Loss for the financial year, representing 								

  total comprehensive income for the

  financial year			                             –           –                  –                                   –  (419,244)         (419,244)

At 30 June 2024			 113,716,680                              (2,092,584) 2,092,584                                  –  (35,298,459) 78,418,221

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                                                                      STATEMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                  CHANGES IN EQUITY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

89
                                           The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024

                                                          Group                                                   Company

		2024                                                           2023     2024                                             2023

                                               RM                RM       RM                                               RM

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Loss before tax from                                                      (419,244) (31,127,458)
 continuing operations		 (4,180,860) (43,413,945)

Adjustments for:

Allowance for obsolete and

  slow-moving inventories		                    –          5,446,445                                            –           –

Depreciation of investment properties		        110,111    112,359                                              –           –

Depreciation of property,

  plant and equipment		                        1,637,925  4,126,210                                            –           –

Depreciation of right-of-use assets		          218,628    418,388                                              –           –

Gain on disposal of property,

  plant and equipment		                        (931,811)         –                                             –           –

Gain on lease termination		                    (9,175)		                                                       –           –

Loss on lease termination		                    31,107            –                                             –           –

Impairment loss on:

  - investments in subsidiaries		              –                 –                                             –  30,745,462

  - property, plant and equipment		            –          20,633,216                                           –           –

  - investment properties		                    201,036           –                                             –           –

  - trade receivables		                        –          548,859                                              –           –

  - other receivables		                        –          2,788,009                                            –           –

Interest expense		                             1,706,849  1,616,892                                            –           –

Interest income		                              (183,172)  (149,217)                                            –           –

(Reversal)/provision for employee

  termination benefits		(110,614)                         900,000                                              –           –

Provision for dismantling and relocation cost  –          360,000                                              –           –

Reversal of impairment loss on:

  - trade receivables		                        –          (186,244)                                            –           –

  - other receivables		                        –          (213,599)                                            –           –

Reversal of allowance for obsolete

  and slow-moving inventories		                –                 (6,493)                                       –           –

Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net		     413,368    423,394                                              –           –

Waiver of lease liabilities		                  –                 (7,500)                                       –           –

Investment in subsidiaries written off		       –                 –                                             –           10

Operating loss before changes in                          (6,603,226)     (419,244)                               (381,986)
  working capital		(1,096,608)

Changes in working capital:

  Inventories		                                5,318,208  (3,094,657)                –                                       –
                                                           6,960,938          6,447                                205,166
 Trade and other receivables		                 4,446,524    (975,295)         7,371                               (127,789)
                                                           2,700,132
 Trade and other payables		 (5,454,701)                                              –                                       –

  Rebate liability		 239,767                                              (405,426)                               (304,609)
                                                                                     –                                       –
Cash from/(used in) operations		3,453,190                 (1,012,108)                –                                       –
                                                          (1,616,892)                –                                       –
  Interest paid		 (1,706,849)
                                                             149,217      (405,426)                               (304,609)
  Interest received		                          183,172    (1,029,916)

 Tax paid		                                    (723,202)

Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 1,206,311    (3,509,699)

                                       The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

90
                                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                                             STATEMENT OF
                                                                              CASH FLOWS

                                                                                        (Cont’d)

                                                            Group                        Company

		2024                                                             2023      2024                 2023

                                            RM                     RM        RM                   RM

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Acquisition of property,                    (3,023,941)     (1,673,746)      –                    –
  plant and equipment		
Sales proceed form disposal of property,       990,625                   –   –                    –
  plant and equipment		
Acquisition of right-of-use assets:                      –      (89,896)     –                    –
- Cash payments		                                        –               –
Advances to subsidiaries		                                                   – (15,712,319)

Net cash used in investing activities		 (2,033,316) (1,763,642)              – (15,712,319)

Cash Flows from Financing Activities        (1,795,445)     (4,307,970)       30,000                   –
                                                         –                –  376,045         132,400
(Repayment to)/advance
  from Directors		                          (5,957,540)      2,716,375                –                –

Advances from subsidiaries		                  (101,172)        (280,061)              –                –
Drawdown/(repayment) of
  borrowings, net		                                      –  15,813,236                –  15,813,236
Payment for the principal
  portion of lease liabilities		            (7,854,157) 13,941,580           406,045     15,945,636
Proceeds from issuance of rights issue
  with warrants net of transaction costs		

Net cash (used in)/from
  financing activities		

Net increase/(decrease) in

  cash and cash equivalents		(8,681,162)                     8,668,239           619     (71,292)
                                                             7,507,269       22,018       93,310
Cash and cash equivalents at
                                                                116,381              –            –
  beginning of the financial year		 16,291,889
                                                            16,291,889       22,637       22,018
Effect of exchange rate changes

  on cash and cash equivalents		            (137,668)

Cash and cash equivalents at
  end of the financial year		 7,473,059

The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                                                                                 91
REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS

(Cont’d)

(i) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:-

                                                                Group                                             Company

		2024                                                                 2023      2024                                      2023

                             Note              RM                      RM        RM                                        RM

Cash and bank balances		                       8,338,811        17,427,480       22,637                           22,018
                                                 893,677            936,589
Fixed deposits with

  licensed banks             20                                                                                –           –

			 9,232,488                                                   18,364,069       22,637                           22,018
                                                                (2,072,180)              –                                –
Less: Bank overdrafts        24                (1,759,429)

			 7,473,059                                                   16,291,889       22,637                           22,018

(ii)	The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:

		                           Amount due        Banker’s		                        Revolving                            Lease
		                            to Directors                                            credit                      liabilities
		                                         RM  acceptance Term loans                      RM
                                                                                                                          RM
                                               RM                      RM

Group                        4,295,838         17,340,209       9,353,202        3,000,000                         704,281
2024                                     –                   –              –                –                    (254,041)
At 1 July 2023                           –                                  –                –
Disposal                                          (646,661)                                                        (29,359)
Exchange differences

Interest expense                          –       957,570          504,725            82,064                         46,350
Repayment                    (1,795,445)       (2,465,342)      (1,954,493)      (3,082,064)                      (147,522)
Net changes in
  financing cash flows       (1,795,445)       (1,507,772)      (1,449,768)      (3,000,000)                      (101,172)

At 30 June 2024              2,500,393         15,185,776       7,903,434                                      –  319,709

2023                          8,603,808        13,009,048       10,512,227       3,000,000                         663,147
At 1 July 2022                            –                  –                –              –                     308,529
Additions                                 –                  –                –              –
Waiver of lease liabilities               –                                   –              –                       (7,500)
Exchange differences                               455,761                                                           20,166
                                          –                         529,864        145,413
Interest expense             (4,307,970)           836,536      (1,688,889)       (145,413)                          26,149
Repayment                                                    –                                                    (306,210)
Drawdown, net                             –                                   –              –
Net changes in                                  3,038,864                                                                    –
  financing cash flows       (4,307,970)                        (1,159,025)                  –
                                                3,875,400                                                         (280,061)
At 30 June 2023               4,295,838                          9,353,202       3,000,000
                                               17,340,209                                                          704,281

                                       The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

92
              Annual Report 2024

         STATEMENT OF
          CASH FLOWS

                    (Cont’d)

(ii)	The reconciliation of the movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: (Cont’d)

						 Amount due
						 to subsidiaries
						 RM

Company

2024

At 1 July 2023					   3,132,323

Advances from					 376,045

At 30 June 2024					  3,508,368

2023                  2,999,923
At 1 July 2022					     132,400
Advances from					
                      3,132,323
At 30 June 2023					

         The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.

                                                                                                                          93
    REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

    NOTES TO THE
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024

    1. GENERAL INFORMATION

           (a) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

           	The Company is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on
                   the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.

           	The Company is an investment holding company.The principal activities of the subsidiaries companies
                   are as stated in Note 15 to the financial statements.

           	There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.

           (b) REGISTERED OFFICE

           	The registered office of the Company is located at No. 46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan Medan Setia 2,
                   Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur.

           (c) PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS

           	The principal place of business of the Company is located at No. 46C, Plaza Damansara, Jalan
                   Medan Setia 2, Bukit Damansara 50490 Kuala Lumpur.

           (d) DATE OF AUTHORISATION OF ISSUE OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

           	The financial statements of the Group and of the Company were authorised for issue by the Board of
                   Directors in accordance with their resolution on 24 October 2024.

    2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    	The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with
           Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRS”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
           and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.

    	The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
           disclosed in notes to the financial statements. The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia
           (“RM”).

    3. NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED

    	On 1 July 2023, the Company adopted the following MFRSs, Amendments to MFRS and Issue Committee
           (“IC”) Interpretations which were effective for the financial year:

    MFRS 17                        Insurance Contracts
    Amendments to MFRS 17          Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9- Comparative Information
    Amendments to MFRS 101         Disclosure of Accounting Policies
    and MFRS Practice Statement 2
    Amendments to MFRS 108         Definition of Accounting Estimates
    Amendments to MFRS 112         Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from single
                                   transaction; and International Tax Reform- Pillar Two Model Rules

94
                                                                                                    Annual Report 2024

                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

3. NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED (cont’d)

	The accounting policies adopted by the Company are consistent with those adopted in the previous year.
       The adoption of the above amendments did not have any significant financial impact on the financial
       statements, except for:

       Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2: Disclosure of accounting policies

	The amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2 provide guidance and examples to help
       entities apply materiality judgements to accounting policy disclosures. The amendments aim to help
       entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful by replacing the requirement for entities
       to disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with a requirement to disclose their ‘material’ accounting
       policies and adding guidance on how entities apply the concept of materiality in making decisions about
       accounting policy disclosures.

	The amendments impact the Company’s disclosures of accounting policies, but not the measurement,
       recognition or presentation of items in the Company’s financial statements.

4. STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE

	The following Standards, Amendments and Issues Committee (“IC”) Interpretations of the MFRS framework
       have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but are not yet effective and
       have not been adopted by the Company are as follows:

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024:

Amendments to MFRS 16      Lease Liability in a Sales and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101     Non-Current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRS 101     Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 107     Supplier Finance Arrangements
and MFRS 7

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025:

Amendments to MFRS 121     Lack of Exchangeability

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026:

Amendments to MFRS 9       Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of Financial
and MFRS 7                 Instruments
Amendments to MFRS 1       Annual Improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards- Volume 11

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027:

MFRS 18                    Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
MFRS 19                    Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures
MFRS 101                   Presentation of Financial Statements will be withdrawn on the
                           application of MFRS 18

Effective for financial periods beginning on or after a date yet to be confirmed:

Amendments to MFRS 10 and  Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate
MFRS 128                   or Joint Venture

	The Company will adopt the above pronouncements when they become effective in the respective
       financial periods. These pronouncements are not expected to have any material financial impact to the
       current and prior period financial statements of the Company upon their initial application.

 

                                                                                                                                         95
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       NOTES TO THE
       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS

          	The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting
                 estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures
                 of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
                 revenue and expenses during the reported year. It also requires the Directors to exercise their judgement
                 in the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates
                 and judgements are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual result
                 may differ.

          	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
                 adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:

                 (a) Impairment of property, plant and equipment

                 	The Group reviews the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each reporting date to
                         assess whether there is any indicator of impairment. When an indication exists, the Group makes an
                         estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s
                         fair value less cost to sell and its value in use (“VIU”). When the recoverable amount of an asset is
                         determined based on the estimate of the VIU of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset
                         is allocated, the management is required to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from
                         the CGU and also to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value of those
                         cash flows.

                 (b) Impairment of goodwill

                         Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and at other times when such indicators exist.This requires
                         management to estimate the expected future cash flows of the cash-generating unit to which
                         goodwill is allocated and to apply a suitable discount rate in order to determine the present value
                         of those cash flows. The future cash flows are most sensitive to budgeted gross margins, growth rates
                         estimated and discount rate used. If the expectation is different from the estimation, such difference
                         will impact the carrying value of goodwill.

                 (c) Impairment of financial assets

                 	The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss associated
                         with their debt instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied as
                         disclosed in Note 6(n) depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

                         For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply the simplified approach permitted by MFRS
                         9, which required expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
           
                         For other receivables and amount due from related parties, the Group and the Company apply
                         the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires the Group and the Company to measure the
                         allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an amount based on the probability of
                         default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss given default of that financial asset.

                         For amount due from subsidiaries, the Company applies the approach permitted by MFRS 9, which
                         requires the Company to measure the allowance for impairment loss for that financial asset at an
                         amount based on the probability of default occurring within the next 12 months considering the loss
                         given default of that financial asset.

96
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (cont’d)

	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
       adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
       (Cont’d)

       (d) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories

               In conjunction with the business rationalisation plan undertaken by the Company which would lead
               to decommissioning of one of the subsidiary’s production facilities in prior year, the management
               performed a review for obsolete and slow-moving inventories. When necessary, allowance is provided
               for obsolete and slow-moving inventories to adjust the carrying value of inventories to the lower of
               cost and net realisable value. The identification of obsolete and slow-moving inventories is based
               on considerations such as future demand and selling prices for each product, quality concern
               and other factors. This review required judgement and estimates where possible changes in these
               estimates could result in revision to the valuation of inventories.

       (e) Carrying value of investment in subsidiaries

               Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
               indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.

               Significant judgement is required in the estimation of the present value of future cash flows generated
               by the subsidiaries, which involves uncertainties and are significantly affected by assumptions
               and judgements made regarding estimates of future cash flows and discount rates. Changes in
               assumptions could significantly affect the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries.

       (f) Defined benefit plan

       	The cost of retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit as well as the
               present value of the obligation is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation
               involves making assumptions about discount rate, salary increment rate, mortality rate, disability
               rate and resignation rate. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the
               appropriate discount rate, management has derived the applicable interest rates from the market
               yield on government bond which sourced from Indonesia Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”) per date of
               calculation.

               The details of the other assumptions are further disclosed in Note 28(v).

       (g) Classification between investment properties and property, plant and equipment

               Certain property comprises a portion that is held to earn rental income or capital appreciation, or for
               both, whilst the remaining portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods and services
               or for administrative purposes. If the portion held for rental and/or capital appreciation could be
               sold separately (or leased out separately as a finance lease), the Group accounts for that portion
               as an investment property. If the portion held for rental and/or capital appreciation could not be
               sold or leased out separately, it is classified as an investment property only if an insignificant portion
               of the property is held for use in the production or supply of goods and services or for administrative
               purposes. Management uses judgement to determine whether any ancillary services are of such
               significance that a property does not qualify as an investment property.

                                                                                                                                         97
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       NOTES TO THE
       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (cont’d)

          	The key assumptions made on estimation uncertainty and critical judgements that could cause material
                 adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
                 (Cont’d)

                 (h) Rebate liability

                 	The Group participates in various promotional programmes with customers designed to increase
                         the sale of products. Among the programmes are arrangements under which rebates, refunds, price
                         concessions or similar items can be earned by customers for attaining agreed upon sales levels, or for
                         participating in specific marketing programmes. Those promotional programmes do not give rise to
                         a separate performance obligation. Where the consideration the Group is entitled to varies because
                         of such programmes, the amount payable is deemed to be variable consideration. Management
                         makes estimates on an ongoing basis for each individual promotion to assess the value of the
                         variable consideration based upon detailed budget agreed between management and customers.
                         The related accruals are recognised as a deduction from revenue or in other expenses and are not
                         considered distinct from the sale of products to the customer.

                  
         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

          	The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
                 financial statements.

                 (a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

                         Consolidation

                 	The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
                         subsidiaries as at the reporting date.The financial statements of the subsidiary used in the preparation
                         of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting date as the Company.
                         Consistent accounting policies are applied for like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
                         The Company controls an investee if and only if the Company has all the following:

                         (i)	Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant
                                 power activities of the investee);

                         (ii)	Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its investment with the investee; and

                         (iii)	The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.

                         When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, the Company
                         considers the following in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are
                         sufficient to give it power over the investee:

                         (i)	The size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings
                                 of the other vote holders;

                         (ii)	Potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;

                         (iii) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and

                         (iv) Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have,
                                 the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made,
                                 including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.

98
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (Cont’d)

               Consolidation (Cont’d)

               Subsidiaries are consolidated when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases
               when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.

       	Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit
               balance.

               Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing
               control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the
               Group’s interest and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative
               interests in the subsidiaries. The resulting difference is recognised directly in equity and attributed to
               owners of the Company.

               When control ceases, the disposal proceeds and the fair value of any retained investment are
               compared to the Group’s share of the net assets disposed.The difference together with the carrying
               amount of allocated goodwill and the exchange reserve that relate to the subsidiary is recognised
               as gain or loss on disposal.

               Business combination

               Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.The cost of an acquisition
               is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value
               and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.The Group elects on a transaction-by-
               transaction basis whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
               or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Transaction cost incurred are
               expensed and included in the profit or loss.

               Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at
               the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is
               deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in the profit
               or loss or a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as
               equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances
               where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in
               accordance with the appropriate MFRS.

               When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
               appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
               circumstances and pertinent conditions as at acquisition date. This includes the separation of
               embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.

               If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s
               previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date
               through profit or loss. Discount on acquisition which represents negative goodwill is recognised
               immediately as income in profit or loss.

                                                                                                                                         99
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

                  (a) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (Cont’d)

                          Subsidiaries

                          In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at
                          cost less impairment losses. On disposal of such investments, the difference between net disposal
                          proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in the profit or loss.

                          Transactions eliminated on consolidation

                          Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-
                          group transactions between subsidiaries in the Group, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated
                          financial statements.

                  (b) FOREIGN CURRENCY

                          (i) Foreign currency transactions and balances

                                 In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other
                                 than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are recorded in Ringgit Malaysia using
                                 the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary items denominated
                                 in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currencies at the
                                 exchange rates on the reporting date. Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies
                                 are not retranslated at the reporting date except for those that are measured at fair value are
                                 retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was
                                 determined.

                          	Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the translation of
                                 monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences
                                 arising on monetary items that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operation.

                          (ii) Foreign operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia

                          	The results and financial position of foreign operations that have a functional currency different
                                 from the presentation currency (“RM”) of the consolidated financial statements are translated
                                 into RM as follows:-

                                 • Assets and liabilities for each reporting date presented are translated at the closing rate
                                         prevailing at the reporting date;

                                 • Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the financial year,
                                         which approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

                                 • All resulting exchange differences are taken to other comprehensive income.

                          	Exchange reserve in respect of a foreign operation is recognised to the profit or loss when
                                 control, joint control or significant influence over the foreign operation is lost.

                          	On partial disposal without losing control, a proportion of the exchange reserve in respect
                                 of the subsidiary is re-attributed to the non-controlling interest. The proportionate share of the
                                 cumulative translation differences is reclassified to the profit or loss in respect of all other partial
                                 disposals.

100
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
       (c) REVENUE RECOGNITION
               Revenue from contracts with customers
               Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied,
               i.e. when the “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is
               transferred to the customer.
               A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or service (or a series of distinct
               goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer) to
               the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s customary business
               practices.
               Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled
               in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts
               collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of
               consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives, penalties or other similar
               items, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled based on the
               expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one
               performance obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation
               based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.
       	The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
               amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the
               variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
       	The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The
               control over the goods or services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
               -	The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s
                      performance as the Group performs;
               -	The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset
                      is created or enhanced; or
               -	The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has
                      an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
               Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at
               which the customer obtains control of the promised goods or services.

                                                                                                                                         101
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
                  (c) REVENUE RECOGNITION (Cont’d)
                          Rebate Liability
                          A rebate liability is the obligation to refund some or all of the consideration received (or receivable)
                          from the customer and is measured at the amount the Group ultimately expects it will have to return to
                          the customer.The rebate liability will be offset against revenue when the Group performs its obligation
                          under the contracts.
                  	The Group provides retrospective volume rebates and other discounts to customers. Rebates and
                          discounts are offset against amount payable by the customer.To estimate the variable consideration
                          for the expected future rebates and discounts, the Group applies the most likely amount method.
                          The Group then applies the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and
                          recognises a refund liability for the expected future rebates.
                          Other income
                          Other income earned by the Group and the Company are recognised on the following bases:
                          (i) Interest income
                                 Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
                          (ii) Rental income
                                 Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
                  (d) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
                          Short term employee benefits
                          Wages, salaries, social security contributions and bonuses are recognised as an expense in the
                          financial year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short term
                          accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when services are
                          rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences, and short
                          term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leaves are recognised when absences
                          occur.
                  	The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
                          expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
                          reporting period.
                          Defined contribution plans
                          As required by law, companies in Malaysia make contributions to the national pension scheme,
                          the Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”). The subsidiaries outside Malaysia make contributions to the
                          relevant state pension scheme. Such contributions are recognised as an expense as incurred. Once
                          the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.

102
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (d) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont’d)

               Defined benefit plan

       	The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit retirement plans is calculated separately for
               each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their
               service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. Any
               unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount
               rate is the yield at the end of the reporting period on government bond (sourced from Indonesia
               Bond Pricing Agency (“IBPA”)) that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits
               are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the
               projected unit credit method.

               When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of
               any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the
               form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to
               calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding
               requirements that apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it
               is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.

               When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service
               by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the
               benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised
               immediately in profit or loss.

       	The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans to equity in
               other comprehensive income in the period when they arise and all expenses related to defined
               benefit plans in personnel expenses in profit or loss.

       	The Group recognises gains and losses on the curtailment or settlement of a defined benefit plan
               when the curtailment or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment comprises any resulting
               change in the fair value of plan assets, change in the present value of defined benefit obligation
               and any related actuarial gains and losses and past service cost that had not previously been
               recognised.

       (e) BORROWING COSTS

               Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset are recognised
               in the profit or loss using the effective interest method.

               Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition of qualifying assets, which are assets that
               necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised
               as part of the cost of those assets.

       	The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
               expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are
               necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing
               costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying
               asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.

               Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
               expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.

                                                                                                                                        103
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
                  (f) INCOME TAXES
                          Current tax
                  	Tax expense represents the aggregate amount of current and deferred tax. Current tax is the
                          expected amount payable in respect of taxable income for the financial year from domestic and
                          foreign operations, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, and any
                          adjustments recognised for prior years’ tax. When an item is recognised outside profit or loss, the
                          related tax effect is recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
                          Deferred tax
                          Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method,on all temporary differences between the carrying
                          amount of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax
                          is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial
                          recognition of assets and liabilities at the time of transaction which is not a business combination
                          and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates
                          that are expected to apply in the period in which the assets are realised or the liabilities are settled,
                          based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting
                          date.
                          Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that there are sufficient taxable temporary
                          differences relating to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority to offset or when it is
                          probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
                          Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no
                          longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
                          reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable
                          that future taxable profit will be available for the assets to be utilised.
                          Deferred tax assets relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
                          loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in other
                          comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from business combination is
                          adjusted against goodwill on acquisition or the amount of any excess of the acquirer’s interest in
                          the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the
                          acquisition cost.

104
                                                                       Annual Report 2024

                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                      (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

(g) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

	Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and
       accumulated impairment losses.

(i) Recognition and measurement

Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and
any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended
use, cost of replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected
cost for the decommissioning of the assets after their use. The cost of self-constructed assets
also includes the cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are
capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. All other repair and
maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

When significant parts of an item of property,plant and equipment have different useful lives,they
are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.

	Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
       benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising on the disposal of property,
       plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the
       carrying amount of the assets and are recognised in profit or loss.

(ii) Subsequent costs

	The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
       carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within
       the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.The costs of the day-to-day
       servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

(iii) Depreciation

Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components
of individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the
remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.

Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on diminishing balance basis over the estimated
useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment at the following
annual rates:-

						%

Buildings					2

Plant, machinery and factory equipment				                            5 - 20

Furniture, fittings and office equipment				                          5 - 20

Motor vehicles					 20

Land has an indefinite useful life and therefore is not depreciated.

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period, and adjusted as appropriate.

Fully depreciated property, plant and equipment are retained in the financial statements until
they are no longer in use and no further charge for depreciation is made in respect of these
property, plant and equipment.

                                                                                                             105
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

                  (h) CAPITAL WORK-IN PROGRESS

                          Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and includes
                          borrowing costs incurred during the period of construction.

                  	No depreciation is provided on capital work-in-progress and upon completion of construction, the
                          cost will be transferred to property, plant and equipment.

                   
                  (i) INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

                          Investment properties are properties which are owned or held to earn rental income or for capital
                          appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or
                          supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

                          Investment properties are measured initially at its cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly
                          attributable to the acquisition of the investment property. The cost of self-constructed investment
                          property includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other cost directly attributable to
                          bringing the investment property to a working condition for their intended use.

                          Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated
                          depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The principal annual rates of depreciation used
                          are:

                          						%

                          Building					2

                  	The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, annually.

                          Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been disposed of or when the
                          investment properties are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is
                          expected from its disposal.Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment property
                          are recognised in profit or loss in the financial period in which they arise.

                  	Transfers are made to (or from) investment property only when there is a change in use. For a transfer
                          from investment property to owner-occupied property, the deemed cost for subsequent accounting
                          is the carrying amount at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property becomes an
                          investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy stated
                          under property, plant and equipment up to the date of change in use.

                  (j) INTANGIBLE ASSETS

                          Goodwill

                          Goodwill acquired in a business combination represents the difference between the purchase
                          consideration and the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
                          contingent liabilities in the subsidiaries at the date of acquisition.

                          Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
                          losses, if any. Impairment test is performed annually. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when
                          indication of impairment exists. Impairment losses recognised are not reversed in subsequent periods.

                  	Upon the disposal of investment in the subsidiary, the related goodwill will be included in the
                          computation of gain or loss on disposal of investment in the subsidiary in the consolidated statement
                          of comprehensive income.

106
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
       (k) INVENTORIES
               Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
       	The cost of inventories is measured based on weighted average cost formula, and includes
               expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
               existing location and condition.
               Costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for
               as follows:
               - cost of raw materials and packaging materials comprise cost of purchase and are stated on a
                      weighted average cost or standard cost basis (which approximates average actual cost).
               - cost of finished goods includes raw materials and packing materials, labour and an appropriate
                      proportion of production overheads.
       	Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated
               costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
       (l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
               (i) Initial recognition and measurement
                      A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statements of financial position when,
                      and only when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of
                      the instrument.
                      A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component) or
                      a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair value
                      through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issuance.
                      A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the
                      transaction price.
                      An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host contract
                      is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative is not closely
                      related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the host contract is
                      not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the event an embedded
                      derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance with policy applicable to
                      the nature of the host contract.

                                                                                                                                        107
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
                  (l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)
                          (ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement recognition and measurement
                                 The Group and the Company categorise financial instruments as follows:
                                 Financial assets
                                 Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
                                 subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its business
                                 model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified
                                 on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the business model.
                                 Amortised cost
                                 Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business model
                                 whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and its contractual terms
                                 give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on
                                 the principal amount outstanding.The financial assets are not designated as fair value through
                                 profit or loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised
                                 cost using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
                                 Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in the profit
                                 or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the profit or loss. Interest income is
                                 recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount except for credit
                                 impaired financial assets [Note 6(n)] where the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised
                                 cost.
                                 All financial assets are subject to impairment assessment [Note 6(n)].
                                 Financial liabilities
                                 Amortised cost
                          	Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
                                 measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
                                 Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Any
                                 gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the profit or loss.
                          (iii) Offsetting
                                 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statements
                                 of financial position when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally
                                 enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to
                                 realise the asset and liability simultaneously.

108
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (l) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)

               (iv) Financial guarantee contract

                      A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments
                      to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment
                      when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

                      Financial guarantees issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured
                      at higher of:

                      • the amount of the loss allowance; and

                      • the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
                              recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
                              Customers.

                      Liabilities arising from financial guarantees are presented together with other provisions.

               (v) Regular way of purchase or sale of financial assets

                      A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose
                      terms require delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or
                      convention in the market place concerned.

                      A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised and derecognised,as applicable,
                      using trade date accounting. Trade date accounting refers to:

                      (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date;
                              and

                      (b) derecognition of an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the
                              recognition of a receivable from the buyer for payment on the trade date.

               (vi) Derecognition

                      A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to the
                      cash flows from the financial asset expire or control of the asset is not retained or substantially all
                      of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred to another party. On
                      derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of
                      the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)
                      and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is recognised in the profit
                      or loss.

                      A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
                      in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability,
                      the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred
                      to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or
                      liabilities assumed, is recognised in the profit or loss.

                                                                                                                                        109
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       NOTES TO THE
       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

                  (m) IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS

                  	The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories) are reviewed at the end of each
                         reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication
                         exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.

                         An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit
                         exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the profit or loss,
                         unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly
                         against any revaluation surplus for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed
                         the amount in the revaluation surplus for that same asset. A cash-generating unit is the smallest
                         identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and
                         groups.

                  	The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating units is the greater of its value-in-use and its
                         fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
                         their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
                         value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

                  	Except for goodwill, assets that were previously impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the
                         impairment at the end of each reporting period. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is
                         recognised in the profit or loss unless it reverses an impairment loss on a revalued asset in which case
                         it is taken to revaluation reserve. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the carrying amount that
                         would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.

                         An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.

                         An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the subsidiary
                         exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less
                         costs to sell and present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the
                         investment including the proceeds from its disposal. Any subsequent increase in recoverable amount
                         is recognised in the profit or loss.

                  (n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS

                  	The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) on
                         financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and lease receivables. Expected credit
                         losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.

                         Loss allowances of the Group and the Company are measured on either of the following basis:-

                         (i) 12-month ECLs – represents the ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the
                                 12 months after the reporting date (or for a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument
                                 is less than 12 months); or

                         (ii)	Lifetime ECLs – represents the ECLs that will result from all possible default events over the
                                 expected life of a financial instrument.

                  	The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in
                         credit risk.

110
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)

               Simplified approach – trade receivables

       	The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to provide ECLs for all trade receivables
               as permitted by MFRS 9. The simplified approach required expected lifetime losses to be recognised
               from initial recognition of the receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are
               estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical credit loss
               experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an
               assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date,
               including time value of money where applicable.

               General approach – other financial instruments and financial guarantee contracts

       	The Group and the Company apply the general approach to provide for ECLs on all other financial
               instruments and financial guarantee contracts which requires the loss allowance to be measured at
               an amount equal to 12-month ECLs at initial recognition.

               At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether the credit risk of a financial
               instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition. When credit risk has increased
               significantly since initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime
               ECLs. In assessing whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
               recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group and the Company consider reasonable and
               supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.This includes both
               quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s and the Company’s
               historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward looking information,
               where available.

               If credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition or if the credit quality of the
               financial instruments improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since
               initial recognition, loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month ECLs.

       	The Group and the Company consider an event of default for internal credit risk management
               purposes when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company
               in full, without recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is
               held).

       	The Company considers a financial guarantee contract to be in default when the debtor of the loan
               is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the creditors of the subsidiaries in full, without recourse by the
               Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held). The Company only apply a discount
               rate if, and to the extent that, the risks are not taken into account by adjusting the expected cash
               shortfalls.

       	The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over
               which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.

                                                                                                                                         111
             REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

       NOTES TO THE
       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)
                  (n) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (Cont’d)
                         Credit impaired financial assets
                         At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
                         amortised cost is credit impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one or more events that
                         have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
                  	Evidence that a financial asset is credit impaired includes the observable data about the following
                         events
                         - Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
                         - A breach of contract such as a default or significant past due event (e.g. being more than 90
                                 days past due);
                         -	The lender of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
                                 financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession that the lender would not
                                 otherwise consider (e.g. the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group and the Company
                                 on terms that the Group and the Company would not consider otherwise);
                         - It is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
                                 or
                         -	The disappearance of an active market for security because of financial difficulties.
                         Write-off policy
                  	The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the extent that
                         there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or the Company
                         determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient
                         cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off
                         could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s
                         procedures for recovery of amounts due. Any recoveries made are recognised in the profit or loss.
                  (o) EQUITY INSTRUMENTS
                         An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group and
                         of the Company after deducting all of their liabilities.
                         (i)	Ordinary shares
                         	Ordinary shares are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental
                                 transaction costs. Ordinary shares are equity instruments. Dividends on ordinary shares are
                                 recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
                         (ii) Issuance expenses
                                 Costs directly attributable to the issuance of instruments classified as equity are recognised as
                                 a deduction from equity.

112
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

       (o) EQUITY INSTRUMENTS (Cont’d)

               (iii) Warrants reserve

                      Rights Issue with Warrants

               	Total proceeds received by the Company arising from the Rights Issue with Warrants have been
                      allocated to two types of equity instruments i.e. share capital and warrants. Fair value of Rights
                      Issue and Warrants are adjusted for the apportionment of its relative fair value between share
                      capital and warrants. The amount allocated to warrant represents the relative fair value of the
                      warrant issued are credited to a warrants reserve which is non-distributable. Warrants reserve is
                      transferred to the share capital account upon the exercise of warrants and the warrants reserve
                      in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants period will be transferred to
                      other reserve.

       (p) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

               A non-current asset held for sale represents an asset whose carrying amount will be recovered
               principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the
               sale must be highly probable and the non-current asset (or disposal group) must be available for
               immediate sale in its present condition. The appropriate level of management must be committed
               to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year
               from its classification.

               Disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale are included in the Statement of financial
               position at fair value less costs to sell, if this is lower than the previous carrying amount.

       	Once an asset is classified as held for sale or included in a group of assets held for sale, no further
               depreciation or amortisation is recorded.

       (q) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CONTINGENT ASSETS

       	The Group and the Company does not recognise a contingent liability but discloses its existence in
               the financial statements. A contingent liability is a probable obligation that arises from past events
               whose existence will be confirmed by uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group and
               the Company or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an
               outflow or resources will be required to settle the obligation.

               A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare circumstances where there is a liability that cannot
               be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably.

               A contingent asset is a probable asset that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed
               by uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group and the Company. The Group and the
               Company does not recognise contingent assets but discloses its existence where inflows of economic
               benefits are probable, but not virtually certain.

       (r) OPERATING SEGMENTS

               An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it
               may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions
               with any of the Group’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed
               regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the
               Company, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its
               performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.

                                                                                                                                         113
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     6. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (cont’d)

     (s) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

     Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
     determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
     orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
     assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal
     market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.

     For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
     to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
     market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.

     When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as
     far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the
     input used in the valuation technique as follows:

     Level 1 :       Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
                     Group can access at the measurement date.

     Level 2 :       Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
                     asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

     Level 3 :	Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

     	The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event
            or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.

     (t) EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary
     shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
     during the financial year, adjusted for own shares held.

     Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
     weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year for the effects of
     all dilutive potential ordinary shares and warrants.

     (u) PROVISIONS

     A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group or the Company has a present
     legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of
     economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting
     the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
     value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as
     finance cost.

     7. REVENUE

     	The Group sells a range of canned food, beverages and premix products. Revenue from sales of products
            are recognised at a point in time when control of the products had been transferred, being the date when
            the customers accepted and acknowledged the delivery of goods.

            Disaggregation of revenue by geographical area is disclosed in Note 32.

114
                                                                                                      Annual Report 2024

                                                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                     (Cont’d)

8. OTHER INCOME

Other income comprise of:					

                                                  Group                              Company

		2024                                                   2023            2024                 2023

		RM                                                     RM              RM                   RM

Gain on disposal of property,

  plant and equipment		 931,811                          –               –                    –

Gain on foreign exchange (realised)		  147,849           –               –                    –

Gain on lease termination		            9,175             –               –                    –

Interest income		183,172                          149,217                779                  –

Reversal on impairment loss

  on trade receivables		–                         186,244                –                    –

Reversal on impairment loss

  on other receivables		–                         213,599                –                    –

Reversal of allowance for obsolete

  and slow moving inventories		        –                 6,493           –                    –

Waiver of lease liabilities		          –                 7,500           –                    –

Scrap sales		 460,194                                    –               –                    –

Sundry income		42,453                                    70,513          2,802                –

Rental income		                        166,400    330,283                –                    –

			 1,941,054                                     963,849                3,581                –

9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS

a)	Loss before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging:

                                                  Group                              Company

		2024                                                   2023            2024                 2023

		RM                                                     RM              RM                   RM

Auditors’ remuneration:

- statutory audit		                    208,770        224,681             55,000     60,000
                                                        36,726            29,000      8,000
- other services		29,000                                        –                            –
                                                                            4,080
- under provision in prior year		      12,251      5,446,445                                 –
                                                                                  –
Allowance for obsolete and                            112,359                                –
                                                                                  –
  slow-moving inventories		            –           4,126,210                                 –
                                                                                  –
Depreciation of investment                            418,388                                –
                                                                                  –
  properties		                         110,111    23,357,395                         89,100
                                                                         102,450
Depreciation of property,

  plant and equipment		                1,637,925

Depreciation of

 right- of-use assets		218,628

Employee benefits

  expense (Note b)		 17,062,213

                                                                                                                          115
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (cont’d)

     a)	Loss before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging: (Cont’d)

                                                            Group                            Company

     		2024                                                        2023                2024           2023

     		RM                                                          RM                  RM             RM

     Impairment loss on:

     - investments in subsidiaries		         –                            –            –     30,745,462
                                                            20,633,216
     - property, plant and equipment		       –                                         –              –
                                                                          –
     - investment properties		               201,036            548,859                –              –
                                                             2,788,009
     - trade receivables		                   –                                         –              –
                                                                360,000
     - other receivables		                   –                     2,239               –              –

     Provision for dismantling                                  774,599
                                                                210,277
       and relocation cost		                 –                                         –              –
                                                                          –
     Realised loss on foreign exchange       –                                         –              –
                                                                423,394
     Short-term lease and lease                                           –

       of low value assets:

     - premises		867,761                                                               –              –

     - equipment		170,477                                                              –              –

     Loss on lease termination		             31,107                                    –              –

     Unrealised loss on foreign

       exchange, net		413,368                                                          –              –

     Investment in subsidiaries written off  –                                         –              10

     b)	Employees benefits comprise of:

                                                            Group                            Company

     		2024                                                        2023                2024           2023

     		RM                                                          RM                  RM             RM

     Staff costs:                             1,616,803      1,697,930       102,450         89,100
     Directors’ remuneration (Note c)		
     Salaries, wages, allowances             15,153,921     19,969,366                –              –
       and overtime		                              (2,096)     (702,676)              –              –
     Income from defined benefit plan		
     Contributions to a defined                  340,462        593,153               –              –
       contribution plan		                         63,737       899,622               –              –
     Social security contributions		
     (Reversal)/provision for employee          (110,614)       900,000               –              –
      termination benefits		
                                                                             102,450         89,100
     			17,062,213                                          23,357,395

116
                                                                                           Annual Report 2024

                                                                             NOTES TO THE
                                                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                          (Cont’d)

9. LOSS BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (cont’d)

c) Directors’ remunerations comprise of:				

                                               Group                      Company

		2024                                                2023    2024                 2023

		RM                                                  RM      RM                   RM

Directors of the Company:

Executive Directors

Salaries, fees and other emoluments 1,162,576  1,228,335      –                    –

Contributions to defined

  contribution plan		            66,708               72,108  –                    –

Social security contributions		  4,346                1,438   –                    –

			                              1,233,630     1,301,881               –                 –
                                                 226,100      102,450            89,100
Non-executive Directors

Fees and allowances		216,950

			1,450,580                                   1,527,981      102,450            89,100

Directors of the subsidiaries:   158,101         161,854               –                 –
Executive Directors                 8,122            8,095             –                 –
Salaries and other emoluments		
Social security contributions		                  169,949               –                 –

			                              166,223       1,697,930      102,450            89,100

			1,616,803

d) Finance costs comprise of:

                                                                          Group

				2024                                                                           2023

				RM                                                                             RM

Bank overdrafts 				                                          116,140      78,930
Bankers’ acceptance 				                                      957,570     836,536
Lease liabilities 				
Revolving credit 				                                          46,350      26,149
Term loans 				                                                82,064     145,413
                                                              504,725     529,864

					1,706,849                                                            1,616,892

                                                                                                               117
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     10. TAX (BENEFIT)/EXPENSE

     		Group

     				2024                                                                        2023

     				RM                                                                          RM

     Current income tax:                                              –              –
     - Malaysian tax				
     - Foreign tax				                                                –             985,538

     Under provision in prior year:                                   –             14,345
     - Malaysian tax				

     					–                                                                         999,883

     Deferred tax (Note 25):                                          (13,600)      (14,703)
     Reversal of temporary differences				                            (13,600)      985,180

     Tax (benefit)/expense for the financial year			

     Reconciliation of tax expense of the Company is as follows:-		

                                                      Group                 Company

     		2024                                                  2023     2024           2023

     		RM                                                    RM       RM             RM

     Loss before tax from                  (4,180,860) (43,413,945)   (419,244) (31,127,458)
       continuing operations 		

     Tax at the Malaysian

       statutory income tax rate

       of 24% (2023: 24%)		 (1,003,406)               (10,419,300)    (100,619)     (7,470,600)
                                                            (11,737)
     Effect of different tax rate                           (95,929)             –               –
                                                                                 –               –
       in other country		                  13,990        1,677,541
                                                         9,820,260     100,619       7,470,600
     Income not subject to tax		           –
                                                             14,345              –               –
     Expenses not deductible                               985,180

       for tax purposes		1,282,012

     Potential deferred tax

       not recognised		                    (306,196)

     Under provision in respect

       of prior years:

       - income tax		                      –                          –              –

     Tax expense for the financial year		  (13,600)                   –              –

118
                                                                Annual Report 2024

                                                  NOTES TO THE
                                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                               (Cont’d)

10. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)

Income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) of the estimated assessable
results for the financial year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the
respective jurisdictions.

	The Group has the following estimates unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances available
       for set-off against future taxable profits:-

		 Group

				2024                                                                              2023

				RM                                                                                RM

Unutilised tax losses				                                                 34,751,997  34,885,063
Unabsorbed capital allowances				                                         26,663,184  23,635,427

					61,415,181                                                                       58,520,490

	The comparative figures have been restated to reflect the actual unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed
       capital allowances carried forward.

	Pursuant to Section 44(5F) of the Income Tax Act 1967, the unutilised tax losses for year of assessment
       2019 and prior will expire in the year of assessment 2029, and unutilised tax losses arising from the year
       assessment 2019 onwards will expire in 10 years from the year assessment the losses arose.

Expired date of the Company’s unutilised tax losses is summarized below:

					 2024                                                                            2023
					RM                                                                                 RM

Year of assessment 2029				                                               3,521,564    6,646,269
Year of assessment 2030				                                               7,965,408    7,965,408
Year of assessment 2031				                                               8,247,162    8,247,162
Year of assessment 2032				
Year of assessment 2033				                                                 615,515       615,515
Year of assessment 2034				                                               1,835,653   11,307,823
Year of assessment 2035				                                               9,575,056
                                                                          2,991,639       102,886
                                                                                                    –

					34,751,997                                                                       34,885,063

                                                                                                                   119
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     11. LOSS PER ORDINARY SHARE

     (a) Basic

     Basic loss per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the loss after tax attributable
     to Owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the
     financial year.

     		Group

     				2024                                                        2023

     				RM                                                          RM

     Basic loss per share:				
     Loss after tax attributable to Owners of the Company 		 (4,167,260) (44,399,125)

     Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:		

     Number of ordinary shares at beginning

       of the financial year (unit)				 657,670,581                  493,252,936
                                                                     137,390,087
     Effect of rights issue with warrants				                –
                                                                     630,643,023
     Weighted average number of ordinary shares
       at end of the financial year				657,670,581

     Basic loss per share (sen)				                          (0.63)  (7.04)

     (b) Diluted

            Diluted loss per share is not presented as the Warrants 2022/2027 were anti-dilutive in nature during
            the financial year, considering the average market price of the ordinary share was lower than the
            exercise price of the unexpired warrants as disclosed in Note 23 (b).

120
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

				                                                              Plant,         Furniture,

				 machinery                                                                   fittings		 Capital

				 and factory                                                                 and office    Motor         work-in-

		                                 Land          Buildings        equipment      equipment     vehicles progress                  Total
                                                                                                                                    RM
		                                 RM            RM               RM             RM            RM            RM
                                                                                                                         126,596,233
Group                            16,300,386       40,856,604       57,178,098    8,586,146     3,674,999              –     3,023,941
2024                                          –                –    2,564,042      135,301       142,800     181,798
Cost                                          –                –                       (360)    (665,464)                (28,063,688)
At 1 July 2023                                                    (27,397,864)                                        –  (22,186,471)
Additions                                     –  (22,035,523)                               –             –
Disposals                          (502,693)         (207,662)        (150,948)    (75,259)     (103,855)             –   (1,204,091)
Reclassification to assets held                                       (308,475)                               (6,147)     78,165,924
  for sale (Note 21)                                                             8,645,828     3,048,480
Exchange difference                                                                                          175,651

At 30 June 2024                  15,797,693      18,613,419       31,884,853

Less: Accumulated Depreciation							

At 1 July 2023                     –             10,541,393       34,273,403     5,665,279     3,087,536     –           53,567,611

Charge for the financial year      –             603,806          906,032        14,770        113,317       –           1,637,925

Disposals                          –             – (18,903,003)                  –             (590,138)     – (19,493,141)

Reclassification to assets held

  for sale (Note 21)               –             (7,572,166)      –              –             –             –           (7,572,166)

Exchange difference                –             (86,719)         (166,014)      (68,473)      (98,276)      –           (419,482)

At 30 June 2024                    –             3,486,314        16,110,418     5,611,576     2,512,439     –           27,720,747

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

121
Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss							

At 1 July 2023                     939,743       1,767,125        15,090,876     2,891,537     100,018       –           20,789,299

Disposal                           –             –                (8,494,861)    –             (16,872)      –           (8,511,733)

At 30 June 2024                    939,743       1,767,125        6,596,015      2,891,537     83,146        –           12,277,566

Net Carrying Amount							

At 30 June 2024                  14,857,950      13,359,980       9,178,420      142,715       452,895       175,651     38,167,611
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

122
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				                                                                    Plant,          Furniture,			

				 machinery                                                                          fittings		 Capital

				 and factory                                                                        and office    Motor         work-in-

		                                      Land            Buildings       equipment       equipment     vehicles progress            Total
                                                                                                                                     RM
		                                      RM              RM              RM              RM            RM            RM

Group (Cont’d)                          15,701,346      46,653,925      55,593,066      6,027,809     1,496,466     1,430,397      126,903,009
2023                                        271,194       (335,949)     (1,095,685)     2,389,180     2,021,793                –      3,250,533
Cost
At 1 July 2022, as reported previously
Reclassification

At 1 July 2022, as restated             15,972,540      46,317,976      54,497,381      8,416,989     3,518,259      1,430,397     130,153,542
Additions                                            –      654,984         823,926       120,036                –       74,800       1,673,746
Reclassification within property,
  plant and equipment                                –               –   1,487,197          18,000               –  (1,505,197)                  –
Reclassification from right-of-use
  assets (Note 13)                                   –               –               –             –      99,296                –         99,296
Reclassification to investment
  properties (Note 14)                               –  (6,249,366)                  –             –             –              –   (6,249,366)
Exchange differences                        327,846         133,010         369,594         31,121        57,444                –       919,015

At 30 June 2023                         16,300,386      40,856,604      57,178,098      8,586,146     3,674,999     – 126,596,233
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

				                                                            Plant,      Furniture,			

				 machinery                                                              fittings		 Capital

				 and factory                                                            and office    Motor         work-in-

		                                      Land        Buildings   equipment   equipment     vehicles progress       Total
                                                                                                                    RM
		                                      RM          RM          RM          RM            RM            RM

Group (Cont’d)

2023 (Cont’d)

Less: Accumulated Depreciation							

At 1 July 2022, as reported previously  –           9,986,415   31,788,287  3,801,905     793,140       –         46,369,747

Reclassification                        –           429,503     (590,282)   1,434,715     1,976,597     –         3,250,533

At 1 July 2022, as restated             –           10,415,918  31,198,005  5,236,620     2,769,737     –         49,620,280
Charge for the financial year                                                 399,011       202,933
Reclassification from right-of-use      –           701,422     2,822,844                               –         4,126,210
  assets (Note 13)                                                                     –      63,369
Reclassification to investment          –           –           –                                       –         63,369
  properties (Note 14)                                                                 –             –
Exchange differences                    –           (631,435)   –               29,648        51,497    –         (631,435)

                                        –           55,488      252,554                                 –         389,187

At 30 June 2023                         –           10,541,393  34,273,403  5,665,279     3,087,536     –         53,567,611

							

Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss							

At 1 July 2022                          –           –           –           156,083       –             –         156,083

Charge for the financial year           939,743     1,767,125   15,090,876  2,735,454     100,018       –         20,633,216

At 30 June 2023                         939,743     1,767,125   15,090,876  2,891,537     100,018       –         20,789,299

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

123
Net Carrying Amount							

At 30 June 2023                         15,360,643  28,548,086  7,813,819   29,330        487,445       –         52,239,323
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
                  a) Assets pledged as security
                          As at 30 June 2024, certain land and buildings with net carrying amount of RM28,217,930 (2023:
                          RM29,150,201) are held as security with the banks for certain banking facilities granted to the Group
                          as disclosed in Note 24.
                  b) Land in Indonesia
                  	Land in Indonesia which is regulated under Hak Guna Bangunan (“HGB”) can be renewed indefinitely
                          with minimal cost if certain conditions are met. The Group assessed the conditions and concluded
                          that the possibility of nonrenewal of the usage rights of the land is remote. Hence, the Group exercised
                          significant judgement and concluded that the land is in substance a purchase of rights which meets
                          the definition of property, plant and equipment regardless of whether the legal title transfers.
                  c) Transfer to investment properties
                          In prior year, the Company transferred two buildings at net carrying amount of RM5,617,931, which
                          are held either to earn rental income or capital appreciation or for both to investment properties as
                          disclosed in Note 14.
                  d) Impairment loss
                  	The Group carried out a review on the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment at each
                          reporting date to assess whether there is any indication of impairment. When an indication exists, the
                          Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.The recoverable amount of the property,
                          plant and equipment was derived based on fair value less cost to sell as well as VIU method using
                          cash flows projection derived from the most recent financial forecast and projections covering a
                          period of 5 years.
                  	The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:
                          (i) Budgeted gross margin
                          	The budgeted average gross margin is 15% to 21% (2023: 22%). Gross margins are based on
                                 average values achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period. Gross
                                 margins are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.
                          (ii) Weighted average growth rate
                          	The weighted average growth rate for business operations is 7% (2023: 6%). Revenue growth is
                                 based on growth achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.
                          (iii) Discount rate
                                 A post-tax discount rate of 9% to 12% (2023: 9.5%) was applied to the calculations in determining
                                 the recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of
                                 capital of the CGU as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.

124
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)

       d) Impairment loss (Cont’d)
               Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
               reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have
               been considered in determining the recoverable amount of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity analysis
               performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key
               assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying
               amount.

       e) Assets held for sale
       	The leasehold land (as disclosed in Note 13) and building (as disclosed in Note 12) have been

               reclassified to asset held for sale as disclosed in Note 21.

                                                                                                                                        125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE		LeaseholdHostelFactoryMotorTotal
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS		landrentalrentalvehiclesRM
		                                                              RM                       RM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)RMRM
                                                                                   544,982
126Group                                                             187,871                 –
                                                                               –             –
2024
                                                                       32,130     (544,982)
Cost                                                                (220,001)                –

At 1 July 2023			                                     7,048,346                –             –  716,963      8,498,162
                                                                                                         –  (7,016,216)
Reclassification to assets held for sale (Note 21)		  (7,016,216)              –                         –
                                                                                                         –               –
Reclassification			 (32,130)                                                                                  (764,983)
                                                                                                (53,023)
Disposal			                                           –                                                         (53,023)

Exchange difference			                                –

At 30 June 2024			                                    –                                         663,940     663,940

Less: Accumulated Depreciation							

At 1 July 2023			                                     2,321,603     140,903       335,372       123,812 2,921,690

Charge for the financial year			                      98,474        12,735        –             107,419     218,628

Reclassification to assets held for sale (Note 21)		  (2,420,077)   –             –             – (2,420,077)

Disposal			                                           –             (153,638) (335,372)         –           (489,010)

Exchange difference			                                –             –             –             17,564      17,564

At 30 June 2024			                                    –             –             –             248,795     248,795

Net Carrying Amount							

At 30 June 2024			                                    –             –             –             415,145     415,145
13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (Cont’d)

		                                                              Leasehold     Hostel    Factory      Motor         Total
		                                                                      land  rental      rental  vehicles            RM
		                                                                        RM                  RM
                                                                                  RM                     RM  8,248,235
                                                                                                               398,425
Group                                                                                                           (99,296)
                                                                                                                (82,675)
2023							                                                                                                      33,473

Cost 						                                                                                                  8,498,162

At 1 July 2022			                                               7,048,346     270,546   544,982   384,361

Additions [Note (a)]			                                         –             –         –         398,425

Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 12)*    –             –         –         (99,296)

Expiry of lease contract			                                     –             (82,675)  –         –

Exchange differences			                                         –             –         –         33,473

At 30 June 2023			                                              7,048,346     187,871   544,982   716,963

Less: Accumulated Depreciation							

At 1 July 2022			                                               2,200,403     78,280    251,529   113,181 2,643,393

Charge for the financial year			                                121,200       145,298   83,843    68,047     418,388

Reclassification to property, plant and equipment (Note 12)*    –             –         –         (63,369)   (63,369)

Expiry of lease contract			                                     –             (82,675)  –         –          (82,675)

Exchange differences			                                         –             –         –         5,953      5,953

At 30 June 2023			                                              2,321,603     140,903   335,372   123,812 2,921,690

Net Carrying Amount							

At 30 June 2023			                                              4,726,743     46,968    209,610   593,151 5,576,472

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

127
* Reclassification as a result of the full settlement of lease
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     13. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)                                                    2023
                                                                                           RM
            (a) Acquisition of right of use assets are satisfied by the following:-
                                                                                      89,896
                    					 2024                                                       308,529
                    					RM
                                                                                     398,425
                    Cash payments				–
                    Lease arrangement				–

                    					–

     (b)	The expenses/(income) charged/(credited) to the profit or loss during the financial year are as
            follow:-

     		 Group

     				2024                                                                        2023

     				RM                                                                          RM

     Depreciation of right-of-use assets			                           218,628        418,388
                                                                                      26,149
     Interest expense on lease liabilities			                         46,350
                                                                                     210,277
     Lease of low value assets				                                    170,477                 –
                                                                                              –
     Gain on lease termination				                                    (9,175)
                                                                                     774,599
     Loss on lease termination				                                    31,107           (7,500)

     Short-term leases				867,761

     Waiver of lease liabilities				                                  –

     14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES

     		 Group

     				2024                                                                        2023

     				RM                                                                          RM

     Buildings                                                        6,249,366                  –
     Cost 		                                                                      –  6,249,366
     At 1 July				
     Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 12)		

     At 30 June				                                                   6,249,366      6,249,366

     Less: Accumulated Depreciation			                                743,794                 –
     At 1 July				                                                             –     631,435
     Reclassification from property, plant and equipment (Note 12)		                 112,359
     Charge for the financial year				                                110,111
                                                                                     743,794
     At 30 June				                                                   853,905

     Less: Accumulated Impairment Loss			

     At 1 July				                                                    –              –

     Addition 				 201,036                                                           –

     At 30 June				                                                   201,036        –

     Net Carrying Amount			                                           5,194,425      5,505,572
     At 30 June				

128
                                                                                            Annual Report 2024

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                               FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                           (Cont’d)

14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (cont’d)

(a)	The fair value of the investment properties are as below:

		Group

				2024                                                                          2023

				RM                                                                            RM

At fair value:			                                                                 5,700,000
Buildings				5,700,000

	The fair value is determined by the Directors based on market values for similar properties in the same
       vicinity.The fair value of the investment properties is within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

(b)	The entire investment properties of the Group have been pledged as security to secure term loan
       facilities of the Group as disclosed in Note 24.

(c) (Income)/expenses derived from the above investment properties are as below:

		Group

				2024                                                                          2023

				RM                                                                            RM

Lease income				 (166,400)                                                        (290,400)

Direct operating expenses:			                                                         7,186
                                                                                     12,921
- Quit rent and assessment				                                 4,988                 97,270

- Insurance				16,977

- Term loans interest expense				                              61,244

15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES

		 Company

				2024                                                                          2023

				RM                                                                            RM

Unquoted Shares, Cost			                                       42,233,607         42,501,620
At beginning of the financial year				                                       –       (268,013)
Written off				

At end of the financial year				 42,233,607                                       42,233,607

Capital Contribution To Subsidiaries			                        79,100,166         51,221,633
At beginning of the financial year				                                       –    27,878,533
Addition 				
                                                               79,100,166         79,100,166
At end of the financial year				

Accumulated Impairment Loss			                                 39,320,071          8,842,612
At beginning of the financial year				                                       –    30,745,462
Addition				                                                                 –
Written off				                                                                      (268,003)
                                                               39,320,071
At end of the financial year				                                                  39,320,071

Net Carrying Amount				82,013,702                                                 82,013,702

                                                                                                                129
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

     Capital contribution to subsidiaries represents advances to subsidiaries which are non-trade in nature,
     unsecured and interest free and the settlement of the amounts are neither planned nor likely to occur in
     the foreseeable future.

                                                   Effective

                                              equity interest

                               Country of     2024  2023
                             incorporation
     Name of company                          %               %    Principal activities

     Rex Canning Co.         Malaysia         100             100   Manufacture and export
       Sdn. Bhd.                                                   of canned food, beverages

                                                                       and premix products

     Rex Trading Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia         100             100  Trading of canned food,

                                                                   beverages and premix products

     Fika Foods Corporation  Malaysia         100             100  Investment holding
       Sdn. Bhd.

     Summit Teamtrade        Malaysia         100             100  Dormant
       (2011) Sdn. Bhd.

     P.T. Rex Canning * #    Indonesia        100             100  Manufacture and export
                                                                         of canned food

     Cinta Edar (M)          Malaysia         100             100  Dormant
       Sdn. Bhd.

     Rex Foods Sdn. Bhd.     Malaysia         100             100  Dormant

     Best Aqua Food          Malaysia         100             100  Dormant
       Sdn. Bhd.

     Gainasia International  British Virgin   100             100  Dormant

      Limited * ^            Islands

     * Not audited by Raki CS Tan & Ramanan
     # Fika Foods Corporation Sdn. Bhd. has 30% equity interest in P.T. Rex Canning.
     ^ The financial statements have been reviewed for consolidation purposes by Raki CS Tan & Ramanan

130
                                                                         Annual Report 2024

                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                        (Cont’d)

15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (cont’d)

       Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries

	The Company has carried out a review of the recoverable amounts of its investment in subsidiaries which
       have been determined based on discounted cash flows projections from financial budgets covering a
       period of 5 years.

       In determining the discounted cash flows projections, the key assumptions used are as follows:

       (a) Budgeted gross margin

       	The budgeted gross margins are ranging from 15% to 21% depending on the CGU. Gross margins are
               based on average values achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period and
               are assumed to be maintained over the budgeted period.

       (b) Annual revenue growth rate

       	The annual revenue growth rate for business operations is 7%. Revenue growth is based on growth
               achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.

       (c) Discount rate

               A post-tax discount rate of 9% to 12% was applied to the calculations in determining the recoverable
               amount of the CGU.The discount rate used is derived based on the industry average cost of capital.

               Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any
               reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have
               been considered in determining the recoverable amount of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity analysis
               performed, management concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key
               assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying
               amount.

16. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION

		 Group

				2024                                                 2023

				RM                                                   RM

Cost                                        11,378,743   11,378,743
At beginning/end of the financial year				  (4,341,263)  (4,341,263)
			
Accumulated Impairment Loss			
At beginning/end of the financial yea r			

Net Carrying Amount				7,037,480                         7,037,480

                                                                                                                     131
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     16. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)

     Impairment testing for CGU containing goodwill

     Goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s CGU identified according to the business segment as follows:-

     		 Group

     				2024                                                   2023

     				RM                                                     RM

     Indonesia manufacturing plant				               7,037,480  7,037,480

     For the purpose of annual impairment testing,goodwill is allocated to the Group’s business which represents
     the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.

     Management has assessed the recoverable amount of goodwill based on value in use generated from
     the continuing use of the CGU projected based on the financial budget for 2025 and projected revenue
     growth covering a period of 5 years.

     The key assumptions used in the determination of recoverable amount are as follows:

     (a) Budgeted gross margin

     	The budgeted average gross margin is 15% (2023: 15%). Gross margins are based on average values
            achieved in the years preceding the beginning of the budget period. Gross margins are assumed to
            be maintained over the budgeted period.

     (b) Weighted average growth rate

     	The weighted average growth rate for business operation is 7% (2023: 5%). Revenue growth is projected
            based on growth achieved as well as taking into consideration of future demand outlook.

     (c) Discount rate

            A post-tax discount rate of 12% (2023: 9.3%) was applied to the calculations in determining the
            recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate used is based on the average cost of capital of
            the CGU as well as taking into consideration of country risk premium.

     (d)	Terminal growth rate

            A terminal growth rate of Nil (2023: 2.5%) was then applied.

     Management believes that while cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, any reasonably
     possible changes to the key assumptions used in assessing recoverable amounts have been considered in
     determining the recoverable amount of the CGU. Based on the sensitivity analysis performed, management
     concluded that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the
     recoverable amount of the unit to be materially below its carrying amount.

132
                                                                                         Annual Report 2024

                                                                           NOTES TO THE
                                                            FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                        (Cont’d)

17. INVENTORIES

		 Group

				2024                                                                    2023

				RM                                                                      RM

Cost:			

Raw materials				18,375,218                                                 23,808,075
                                                                            28,434,147
Finished goods				25,853,901
                                                                             9,732,651
Packaging materials				7,377,724                                             1,587,866

Spare parts and diesel				                                  1,524,936

					53,131,779                                                             63,562,739

Less: Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories		

At beginning of the financial year				                      (5,517,157)       (906,154)
Addition				                                                             –  (5,446,445)
Reversal				                                                             –
Written off				                                                                    6,493
                                                             2,064,848         828,949

At end of the financial year				 (3,452,309) (5,517,157)

Net Carrying Amount				49,679,470                                           58,045,582
			

Inventories recognised in cost of sales				 97,609,913 110,391,546

18. TRADE RECEIVABLES

		 Group

				2024                                                                    2023

				RM                                                                      RM

Trade receivables, gross				 24,268,371                                     30,149,732
			
Less: Allowance for impairment loss			                                      (2,659,837)
                                                                               (548,859)
       At beginning of the financial year				 (1,480,006)                       186,244
       Additions				–                                                        1,542,446
       Reversal				–
       Written off				–

At end of the financial year				 (1,480,006) (1,480,006)

Trade Receivables, Net				 22,788,365                                       28,669,726

	The normal credit terms of trade receivables of the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2023: 30 to 90 days).
       Other credit terms are assessed and approved on a case by case basis.

	Trade receivables amounting to RM7,235,382 (2023: RM9,470,097) is held as security for bankers’
       acceptance facilities as disclosed in Note 24.

                                                                                                             133
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     19. OTHER RECEIVABLES

                                                Group                      Company

     		2024                                            2023     2024                2023

                            Note  RM                   RM       RM                  RM

     Sundry receivables, gross		  491,847       490,277         –                   –
     Less: Allowance for
     	  impairment loss           (409,197)     (1,467,395)     –                   –
                                             –    (325,799)
            At beginning of                  –     213,599      –                   –
     	  the financial year		                 –   1,170,398
                                                                –                   –
            Additions		           (409,197)       (409,197)
            Reversal		                                          –                   –
            Written off		
            At end of the                                       –                   –
     	  financial year		

     Sundry receivables, net		    82,650               81,080   –                   –

     Deposits, gross        (i)   800,268        2,802,196      –                   –

     Less: Allowance for                                     –
                                                (2,267,000)
     	  impairment loss
                                                             –
     At beginning of                            (2,267,000)

     	  the financial year		 (2,267,000)                        –                   –

     Additions		                  –                             –                   –

     Written off		 2,267,000                                    –                   –

     At end of the

     	  financial year		          –                             –                   –

     Deposits, net		              800,268       535,196         –                   –

     Prepayments, gross     (ii)  2,243,939     2,458,115       23,884     30,331

     Less: Allowance for          (195,210)                 –           –          –
            impairment loss                  –   (195,210)              –          –
            At beginning of                      (195,210)              –          –
            the financial year		  (195,210)     2,262,905       23,884     30,331
            Additions		                         2,879,181       23,884     30,331
            At end of the
            financial year		

     Prepayment, net		2,048,729

     Other Receivables, Net		2,931,647

     (i) Included in deposits, net of the Group are:

            (a) Deposits paid for the purchase of machineries amounting to Nil (2023: RM368,000); and

            (b)	Non-interest bearing deposits placed with a bank for bank guarantee facilities granted to the
                    Group amounting to RM48,000 (2023: RM48,000).

     (ii) Included in prepayments,net of the Group is advance payment to suppliers amounting to RM1,165,015
            (2023: RM955,103).

134
                                                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                 (Cont’d)

20. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANK

	The effective interest rates of the fixed deposits of the Group ranging from 2.60% to 3.84% (2023: 2.80% to
       3.84%) per annum with maturity period of 3 to 6 months (2023: 3 to 6 months).

21. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE

	On 10 November 2023, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a sales and purchase agreement to
       dispose two lots of property.The transaction was completed on 30 September 2024 as disclosed in Note 36.

At 30 June 2024, these assets were classified as assets held for sales as follows:

					 NOTE                                                                                        2024

						 RM

Assets classified as held for sale 			

Property, plant and equipment				                                                   12    14,614,305
                                                                                           4,596,139
Right-of-use assets				 13                                                                    355,407

Expenses capitalised with regards to assets held for sale			

						 19,565,851

	The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets of the disposal assets is the
       same as its carrying value before it was being reclassified to asset held for sales.

 
22. SHARE CAPITAL

		                                                      Group and Company

                                      Number of shares                                    Amount

		2024                                                  2023                        2024          2023

		 Unit Unit RM                                                                                   RM

Ordinary Shares                       657,670,581       493,252,936  113,716,680          97,903,444
Issued And Fully Paid                                –  164,417,645                 –     15,813,236
At beginning of the financial year		
Rights issue with warrants		

At end of the financial year		 657,670,581 657,670,581 113,716,680 113,716,680

	The proceeds from the Rights Issue in the previous year were for business expansion and working capital
       purposes. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
       Company.All ordinary shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regards to
       the Company’s residual interests.

                                                                                                                      135
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     23. RESERVES

                                            Group               Company

     		2024                                        2023   2024            2023

                           Note  RM                RM     RM              RM

     Non-distributable:    (a)   (4,779,413) (1,568,467)               –               –
     Translation reserve                                   2,092,584       2,092,584
     Warrants reserve      (b)   2,092,584  2,092,584     (2,092,584)     (2,092,584)
     Other reserve
                           (c)   (2,092,584) (2,092,584)               –               –

     			 (4,779,413) (1,568,467)

     (a) Translation reserve

     	The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
            statements of foreign subsidiaries.

     (b) Warrants reserve

            Warrants 2022/2027

            In prior year, the Company has issued 54,805,755 free warrants (“Warrants 2022/2027”) pursuant
            to the Rights Issue with Warrants on the basis of one Rights Warrant for every three Rights Shares
            subscribed, and completed the exercise following the listing of and quotation for the Warrants on the
            Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 30 August 2022.The fair value of the Warrant was
            determined based on the fair value of warrants immediately upon the listing and quotation thereof
            as RM0.07 per warrant. The Rights Warrants are constituted by the Deed Poll dated 29 August 2022.

            The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows:

            (i) Issue price

                    The Warrants will be issued at no cost to the Entitled Shareholders.

            (ii)	Exercise price

            	Each Warrant entitles the registered holder at any time during the exercise period to subscribe
                    for one new ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.15 per Warrant.

            (iii)	Exercise period

                    Five (5) years commencing on and including the date of issuance of the Warrants. Any Warrants
                    not exercised during the exercise period will thereafter lapse and cease to be valid.

            (iv) Rights of Warrant holders

            	The holder of Warrants shall not be entitled to any voting rights or to participate in any dividends,
                    rights, allotments and/or other forms of distributions other than on winding-up, compromise or
                    arrangement of our Company and/or offer of further securities in the Company until and unless
                    such holders of the Warrants become a shareholder of the Company by exercising their Warrants
                    into new Ordinary Shares of the Company or unless otherwise resolved by the Company in a
                    general meeting.

136
                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                 (Cont’d)

23. RESERVES (cONT’D)

       (b) Warrants reserve (Cont’d)

               Warrants 2022/2027 (Cont’d)

               The salient features and other terms of the Warrants are as follows: (Cont’d)

               (v) Ranking of new ordinary shares

               	The new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants will, upon allotment
                      and issuance, rank equally in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company
                      except that such new ordinary shares will not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments
                      and/or any other forms of distribution where the entitlement date precedes the relevant date of
                      allotment and issuance of the new ordinary shares.

               (vi) Adjustment in the exercise price and/or number of Warrants

               	The exercise price and/or the number of Warrants held by each Warrant holder may from time
                      to time be adjusted by the Directors in consultation with an approved adviser and certified by
                      the auditors at any time during the tenure of the Warrants.

               As at 30 June 2024, total number of Warrants that remains unexercised were 54,805,755.

       (c) Other reserve

       	Other reserve represents the discount on issuance of shares and the value of which is represented by
               the fair value of warrants. The other reserve, in substance, form part of the issued and paid-up share
               capital and is presented separately for better understanding.

24. BORROWINGS

		 Group

				2024                                            2023

				RM                                              RM

Non-current			                       6,388,966      8,178,974
Term loans (secured)				

Current		                            1,759,429       2,072,180
Bank overdrafts (unsecured)				      7,950,394       7,870,112
Bankers’ acceptance (unsecured)				  7,235,382       9,470,097
Bankers’ acceptance (secured)				                    3,000,000
Revolving credit (unsecured)				                 –   1,174,228
Term loans (secured)				             1,514,468
                                                    23,586,617
					18,459,673
                                                    31,765,591
					24,848,639
			

                                                                                                                       137
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     24. BORROWINGS (Cont’d)

     		 Group

     				2024                                                                                            2023

     				RM                                                                                              RM

     Represented By:			

     Term loans				7,903,434                                   9,353,202
                                                               2,072,180
     Bank overdrafts 				                         1,759,429   17,340,209
                                                               3,000,000
     Bankers’ acceptance 				 15,185,776

     Revolving credit 				                        –

     					24,848,639                                          31,765,591

     Maturity Profile of Borrowings:			           18,459,673  23,586,617
     On demand or within 1 year				                4,543,403   2,932,440
     More than 1 year and less than 5 years			     1,845,563   5,246,534
     More than 5 years				
                                                              31,765,591
     					24,848,639

     Term loan 1(¹)				 686,494                               1,260,781
                                                                423,938
     Term loan 2(¹)				                           –
                                                              7,668,483
     Term loan 3(2)				7,216,940
                                                              9,353,202
     					7,903,434

     Maturity Profile of Term Loans:			

     Within one year				                          1,514,468   1,174,228
                                                  1,514,468   1,239,151
     More than 1 year and less than 2 years   		  3,028,935   1,693,289
                                                  1,845,563   5,246,534
     More than 2 years and less than 5 years  		

     More than 5 years                       			

     					                                        7,903,434   9,353,202
     			

     (¹) Conventional term loan			
     (2) Islamic term loan			

     Interest rate per annum at the reporting date for the bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:

     					 2024                                                                                          2023
     					%                                                                                                  %

     Bank overdrafts				                          BLR* + 1.5    BLR* + 1.5
                                                              3.41 to 6.50
     Bankers’ acceptance				 3.49 to 6.50
                                                                        4.85
     Revolving credit				–
                                                                 BLR* - 1.5
     Term loans:			                                            BFR# - 1.25

     - Conventional				                           BLR* - 1.5

     - Islamic				 BFR# - 1.25

     * BLR – Base Lending Rate
     # BFR – Base Financing Rate

138
                                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                             (Cont’d)

24. BORROWINGS (Cont’d)

Bank borrowings of the Group are secured by:-

(i) land and buildings of the Group as disclosed in Notes 12 and 14;
(ii) corporate guarantee of the Company; and
(iii) proceeds from certain trade receivables of the Group as disclosed in Note 18.

 
25. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

		 Group

				2024                                                                                2023

				RM                                                                                  RM

At beginning of the financial year				           1,477,185                              1,491,888
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 10)				          (13,600)                               (14,703)

At end of the financial year				                 1,463,585                              1,477,185

Presented before appropriate offsetting:			      (1,625,701)                             (864,200)
- Deferred tax assets				                         3,089,286                             2,341,385
- Deferred tax liabilities				
                                                                                        1,477,185
					1,463,585

This is in respect of estimated deferred tax liabilities/(assets) arising from temporary differences as follows:

		Group

				2024                                                                                2023

				RM                                                                                  RM

Deferred Tax Liabilities:			                     3,089,286                              2,341,385
Deemed cost of property, plant and equipment			

					3,089,286                                                                          2,341,385

Deferred Tax Assets:			

Excess of tax base between the net carrying amount of			

  property, plant and equipment				              (895,134)                               (118,800)
                                                                                                    –
Unabsorbed capital allowance				                 (730,567)
                                                                                         (745,400)
Other deductible temporary differences*			                                           –
                                                                                         (864,200)
					 (1,625,701)
                                                                                        1,477,185
					1,463,585

* Comprised of allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories and impairment loss on trade
       receivables.

 

                                                                                                                  139
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     25. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)

     	The estimated temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the financial
            statements are as follows stated at gross:-

     		 Group

     				2024                                               2023

     				RM                                                 RM

     Unutilised tax losses				                  34,751,997  34,885,063
     Unabsorbed capital allowances				          26,663,184  23,635,427
     Other deductible temporary differences			
                                                 4,326,792   8,497,300

     					65,741,973                                        67,017,790

     26. LEASE LIABILITIES

     		 Group

     				2024                                               2023

     				RM                                                 RM

     At 1 July 				                             704,281      663,147
                                                             308,529
     Addition				–
                                                               (7,500)
     Disposal				 (254,041)                                    26,149
                                                            (306,210)
     Interest 				46,350                                       20,166

     Repayment 				 (147,522)

     Exchange difference				(29,359)

     At 30 June				                             319,709     704,281

     						 Motor
     						 Vehicles
     						 RM

     Group (Cont’d)

     2024

     Minimum Leases Payables

     Within 1 year					 129,973

     More than 1 year but less than 2 years					            129,973

     More than 2 years but less than 5 years				            145,419

     						 405,365

     Less: Future finance lease charges					                (85,656)

     Present Value of Lease Payables					 319,709

140
                                                                                            Annual Report 2024

                                                                              NOTES TO THE
                                                               FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                           (Cont’d)

26. LEASE LIABILITIES

						 Motor
						 Vehicles
						 RM

Group (Cont’d)

2024

Present Value of Lease Payables				

Within 1 year					 91,690

More than 1 year but less than 2 years					                               98,970

More than 2 years but less than 5 years				                               129,049

					

Present Value of Lease Payables					 319,709

Analysed As:					
Current portion					 91,690
Non-current portion					 228,019

						 319,709

			 Hostel                                          Factory       Motor   Total
			Rental                                            Rental    Vehicles     RM
			RM                                                     RM
                                                                      RM

Group (Cont’d)                           48,600      90,000     140,353    278,953
2023                                             –   90,000     140,353    230,353
Minimum Leases Payables                          –   45,000     297,386    342,386
Within 1 year
More than 1 year but less than 2 years              225,000     578,092    851,692
More than 2 years but less than 5 years               (6,215)  (140,748)  (147,411)

           		                            48,600     218,785     437,344    704,281
Less: Future finance lease charges          (448)

Present Value of Lease Payables          48,152

Present Value of Lease Payables          48,152      86,088     92,102    226,342
Within 1 year                                    –   87,982     99,012    186,994
More than 1 year but less than 2 years           –   44,715    246,230    290,945
More than 2 years but less than 5 years
                                         48,152     218,785    437,344    704,281
Present Value of Lease Payables

Analysed As:                             48,152      86,088     92,102    226,342
Current portion                                  –  132,697    345,242    477,939
Non-current portion
                                         48,152     218,785    437,344    704,281
			

                                                                                                                141
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     27. TRADE PAYABLES

     	The normal trade credit terms granted by the trade creditors to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2023:
            30 to 90 days).

     28. OTHER PAYABLES

                                                              Group                     Company

     		2024                                                          2023    2024                   2023

                               Note                       RM         RM      RM                     RM

     Other payables            (i)    2,906,305               3,551,446      46,294                 54,081
                                      4,906,686                                                     73,502
     Accruals		                       3,052,000               5,836,451      88,660
                                                                                                            –
     Deposit                   (ii)               –                  –       –
                                                                                                            –
     Provision for dismantling		                  –           			
                                        884,999                                                             –
       and relocation cost     (iii)  2,500,393               360,000        –                              –
                                                                                                            –
     Provision for employee             267,158
                                                                                                            –
       termination benefits    (iv)                             900,000              –
                                                              1,771,797              –
     Retirement benefits       (v)                            4,295,838      30,000

     Amounts due to Directors  (vi)

     Amounts due to

       related parties         (vi)                           893,665        –

     			14,517,541                                            17,609,197     164,954    127,583

     (i)	Other payables

     Included in sundry payables of the Group is security deposits received from customers of RM100,000
     (2023: RM150,000).

     (ii) Deposit

     Included in deposit of the Group is deposit received for disposal of property as per Note 36.

     (iii)	Provision for dismantling and relocation cost

     In prior year, the Group recognised a provision of RM360,000 for dismantling and relocation and are
     based on management’s estimation.

     Movement in provision for dismantling and relocation cost is as below:

     		Group

     				2024                                                                                       2023

     				RM                                                                                         RM

     At beginning of the financial year				                                  360,000             –
                                                                                        360,000
     Additions				–
                                                                                                 –
     Payment during the financial year			                                    (360,000)

     At end of the financial year				                                        –          360,000

142
                                                                                      Annual Report 2024

                                                                        NOTES TO THE
                                                         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                     (Cont’d)

28. OTHER PAYABLES (Cont’d)

(iv)	Provision for employee termination benefits

In prior year, the Group recognised a provision of RM900,000 for employee termination benefits and
are based on a detailed plan agreed between the management and employees. The amount has
been paid in the current financial year end in July 2023 and August 2023.

Movement of provision for employee termination benefits is as below:

		Group

				2024                                                                         2023

				RM                                                                           RM

At beginning of the financial year				                                900,000     306,210
                                                                                  900,000
Additions				–
                                                                                            –
Reversal				 (110,614)                                                           (306,210)

Payment during the financial year			                                  (789,386)

At end of the financial year				                                      –          900,000

(v) Retirement benefits

A subsidiary of the Group in Indonesia makes contributions to four non-contributory defined benefit
plans that provide retirement benefit, death benefit, disability benefit and resignation benefit for
employees.

		 Group

				2024                                                                         2023

				RM                                                                           RM

Movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations			

At beginning of the financial year				                                1,771,797  2,720,305
                                                                                   283,153
Current service cost and interest				                                 174,708     (566,335)
                                                                                    (84,366)
Past service cost				                                                 –           (335,128)
                                                                                  (335,128)
Other cost				–                                                                      89,296

Benefit payment				 (780,119)

Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income               (176,804)

Exchange differences				 (104,583)

At end of the financial year				                                      884,999    1,771,797

Income recognised in profit or loss

		 Group

				2024                                                                         2023

				RM                                                                           RM

Current service cost and interest				                                 174,708     283,153
                                                                                 (566,335)
Past service cost				                                                 –
                                                                                  (84,366)
Other cost				–                                                                  (335,128)

Actuarial gain				 (176,804)

					 (2,096)                                                                    (702,676)

                                                                                                          143
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     28. OTHER PAYABLES (Cont’d)

     (v) Retirement benefits (Cont’d)

     Income recognised in profit or loss (Cont’d)

     	The income is recognised in the following line item in the statements of comprehensive income:-

     		Group

     				2024                                                                                     2023

     				RM                                                                                       RM

     Staff cost				 (2,096)                                                       (702,676)

     Actuarial gain recognised directly in other comprehensive income

     		Group

     				2024                                                                                     2023

     				RM                                                                                       RM

     At beginning of the year				                                      1,041,928  706,800
                                                                         176,804  335,128
     Recognised during the year        			

     At end of the year                			                             1,218,732  1,041,928

     Actuarial assumptions

     		 Group

     				2024                                                                                     2023

     					%                                                                                            %

     Discount rate				7.02                                                                        6.79
                                                                                                  7.00
     Salary increment rate				                                         2.00                       5.00

     Disability rate				0.10

     Resignation rate			                           25% up to the                  15% up to the
     				                                          age of 30 and                  age of 30 and
     				
     				                                                 decrease                       decrease
     				                                           linearly to 0%                 linearly to 0%
     				                                            at retirement                  at retirement

                                                                  age                            age

            			
     (vi)	These amounts represent unsecured, interest-free advance which is repayable on demand.

144
                                                                                       Annual Report 2024

                                                                         NOTES TO THE
                                                          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                      (Cont’d)

29. REBATE LIABILITY

       Rebate liability relates to the most likely amount of rebate to be given to customers and to be offset against
       amounts payable by the customers upon satisfaction of certain sales conditions.

30. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURE

(a) Control Relationship

	Parties are considered to be related to the Group and to the Company if the Group and the Company
       have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party
       in making financial and operating decision, or vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and
       the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be
       individuals or other entities.

	The Group and the Company have a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, related parties
       and key management personnel. Related parties are companies in which certain Directors of the
       Company have substantial financial interests and/or are also Directors of the companies.

(b) Details of Significant Related Parties Balances:

Significant related company balances are disclosed in Note 15 and 28 to the financial statements.

(c) Details of Significant Related Parties Transactions:

					 2024                                                         2023
					RM                                                              RM

Company                                                                 132,400
Transactions with subsidiaries:                                    (15,712,319)
Advances from				132,400
Repayment to				 (303,849)

Group

Transactions with related parties:

Short-term lease of office				                            102,000      93,600
                                                                       41,867
Purchase of goods				                                     –           (36,000)

Rental income				 (36,000)                                                     –
                                                                   5,150,087
Security charges				 20,939
                                                                       59,840
Transportation charges				4,187,767                                    76,773

Travelling expenses				44,274                                              312
                                                                     272,000
Upkeep of motor vehicles				                              97,487

Water charges				598

Warehouse management				240,000

       	The Directors are of the view that the above transactions have been entered into the normal course
               of business under terms and conditions no less favourable to the Company than those arranged with
               independent third parties.

 

                                                                                                                        145
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     30. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (CONT’D)

     (d) Compensation of Key Management Personnel

     Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for
     planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly
     or indirectly. The key management personnel comprise all the Directors of the Company and its
     subsidiaries, as well as certain senior management personnel of the Group and of the Company.

     	The remunerations paid by the Group and the Company to the Directors during the financial year are
            disclosed in Note 9(c).

     	The remuneration of other members of key management personnel of the Group during the financial
            year are as follows:

     		 Group

     				2024                                                   2023

     				RM                                                     RM

     Key management personnel:                      2,052,653   1,075,102
     Salaries and other emoluments				                  88,366      43,056
     Contributions to defined contribution plan			      39,003      23,604
     Social security contributions				

     					2,180,022                                             1,141,762

     31. CAPITAL COMMITMENT

     		 Group

     				2024                                                   2023

     				RM                                                     RM

     Authorised and contracted for:			              136,880     368,000
     Acquisition of machineries				

146
                                                                                  Annual Report 2024

                                                                    NOTES TO THE
                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                 (Cont’d)

32. OPERATING SEGMENTS

	The Group has only one reportable segment, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and
       distribution of canned food, beverages and premix products. The Group’s Managing Director (the Chief
       Operating Decision Maker) reviews internal management reports on the reportable segment on a monthly
       basis. Accordingly, information by operating segments on the Group’s operations as required by MFRS 8 is
       not presented.

Geographical area

Revenue and non-current assets information based on the geographical location of customers and assets
respectively are as follows:

                                        Group                         Group

                             External revenue        Non-current assets*

		2024                                         2023  2024                    2023

		RM                                           RM    RM                      RM

Malaysia		56,790,968                    65,943,221   35,710,955       54,253,834
                                        70,370,989                 –                –
USA			51,733,350                        19,730,196                 –                –

Europe		15,101,220                       6,363,684   15,103,706       16,105,013

Asia (excluding Malaysia)		  6,896,748

			130,522,286 162,408,090                           50,814,661       70,358,847

       *	Non-current assets consist of all non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax
               assets.

       Major customer information

	The Group has three (2023: three) customers who contributed RM8,880,059 (2023: RM6,196,688),
       representing 7% (2023: 4%) of the Group’s revenue during the financial year.

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES

	The Group’s financial risk management policies seek to ensure that adequate financial resources are
       available for the development of the Group’s businesses whilst managing its risks. The Group operates
       within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board of Directors and the Group’s policy is not
       to engage in speculative transactions.

	The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the objectives and policies in respect of each of
       these are as follows:

       (a) Credit Risk

               Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
               to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from the
               individual characteristics of each customer. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
               from loans and advances to subsidiaries. There are no significant changes as compared to prior
               years.

                                                                                                                        147
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (Cont’d)
          	The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the objectives and policies in respect of each of

                  these are as follows: (Cont’d)
                  (a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

                          (i) Trade receivables
                                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
                                 Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
                                 ongoing basis. Credit risk is minimised and monitored via strictly limiting the Group’s associations
                                 to business partners with good credit rating. Credit evaluations are performed on all customers
                                 requiring credit over a certain amount.
                                 At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the trade receivables are credit
                                 impaired.

                          	The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired receivables are written off (either partially or
                                 full) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
                                 determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate
                                 sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to write-off.
                                 Nevertheless, receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
                                 There are no significant changes as compared to the previous year.
                                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
                                 As the Group does not hold any collateral, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented
                                 by the carrying amount of the financial assets as at the end of the reporting period.
                                 Credit risk concentration profile

                          	The Group determines concentration of credit risk by monitoring the profiles of its receivables on
                                 an ongoing basis.

                          	The Group has significant concentration of credit risk arising from the amounts due from 3
                                 customers (2023: 3 customers) constituting 39% (2023: 18%) of gross trade receivables of the
                                 Group.
                                 Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
                                 In managing credit risk of trade receivables,the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate
                                 actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances and to
                                 ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated at their realisable
                                 values.

                          	The Group has applied the simplified approach in MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at
                                 lifetime expected credit losses as disclosed in Note 6(n). The Group assesses impairment of
                                 trade receivables on individual and collective basis.

148
                                                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                             (Cont’d)

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

(i) Trade receivables and other receivables (Cont’d)

Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)

For individual assessment, it is due to the number of debtors is minimal and these debtors can
be individually managed by the Group in an effective and efficient manner. The Group has
reasonable and supportable information available to assess the impairment individually.

For collective assessment, the Group determines the expected credit losses by using a provision
matrix for collective assessed receivables which are grouped together based on shared credit
risk characteristics, the number of days past due and similar types of contracts which have
similar risk characteristics.

	Loss rates are calculated using a “roll rate” method based on the probability of a receivable
       progressing through successive stages of delinquency. Loss rates are based on actual credit
       loss experienced over the prior years and are adjusted to reflect the forward-looking information
       on macroeconomic factors. The Group also considers differences between (a) economic
       conditions during the period over which the historical data has been collected, (b) current
       economic conditions and (c) the Group’s view of economic conditions over the expected lives
       of the receivables.

Impairment losses

	The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
       receivables as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023:

				                                                  Gross

				 carrying                                                               Loss
                                                                 allowances
				                                                  amount                      Net balance
                                                                             RM                 RM
				RM

Group

2024 				

Not past due			 18,787,992                                       –                18,787,992

Past due:					

- Less than 30 days			                                3,243,012  (108,975)        3,134,037

- 31 to 90 days			                                    498,014    (16,765)         481,249

Credit impaired:					

- More than 90 days			                                399,058    (13,971)         385,087

				 4,140,084                                                   (139,711)        4,000,373

Credit impaired:					

- Individually impaired			                            1,340,295  (1,340,295)      –

				 24,268,371                                                  (1,480,006) 22,788,365

                                                                                                                  149
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

     (a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

     (i) Trade receivables and other receivables (Cont’d)

     Impairment losses (Cont’d)

     	The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
            receivables as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023: (Cont’d)

     				                                                  Gross

     				 carrying                                                               Loss
                                                                      allowances
     				                                                  amount                      Net balance
                                                                                  RM                 RM
     				RM

     Group

     2023 				

     Not past due			 25,159,340                                       (79,675)         25,079,665

     Past due:					

     - Less than 30 days			                                2,195,232  (73,835)         2,121,397

     - 31 to 90 days			                                    906,630    (228,533)        678,097

     Credit impaired:					

     - More than 90 days			                                968,942    (178,375)        790,567

     				 4,070,804                                                   (480,743)        3,590,061

     Credit impaired:					

     - Individually impaired			                            919,588    (919,588)        –

     				 30,149,732                                                  (1,480,006) 28,669,726

     (1) Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired

     	Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy debtors with
            good payment records and mostly are regular customers that have been transacting with
            the Group.

     (2) Receivables that are past due but not impaired

     	The Group has not provided allowance for expected losses on these trade receivables as
            there have been no significant changes in their credit qualities and the amounts are still
            considered recoverable. These trade receivables relate mostly to customers with slower
            repayment patterns, for whom there is no history of default. The Group does not hold any
            collateral or other credit enhancement over these balances.

     (3) Receivables that are impaired

            Any receivables having significant balances past due more 90 days, which are deemed to
            have higher credit risk, are monitored individually.

     	Trade receivables that are collectively determined to be impaired at the reporting date
            relate to debtors that have defaulted on payments and due more than 90 days. These
            receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit enhancements.

150
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

       (a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

               (ii) Intercompany loans and advances

                      Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

               	The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to its subsidiaries. The Company
                      monitors the abilities of the subsidiaries to repay the loans and advances on an individual basis.

                      Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                      As at the reporting date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from amounts due from
                      subsidiaries are represented by their carrying amounts in the notes to the financial statements.
                      Loans and advances provided are not secured by any collateral or supported by any other
                      credit enhancements.

                      Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                      Amounts due from subsidiaries are repayable on demand. For loans that are repayable on
                      demand, expected credit losses are assessed based on assumption that repayment of the loan
                      is demanded at the reporting date.

                      Generally, the Company considers loans and advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk.
                      The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
                      financial positions deteriorate significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of
                      payments of subsidiaries’ loans and advances when they are payable, the Company considers
                      the subsidiaries’ loans or advances to be credit impaired when subsidiaries are unlikely to repay
                      the loan or advances to the Company in full given insufficient highly liquid resources when the
                      loans are demanded.

               	The Company determines the probability of default for these loans and advances individually
                      using internal information available.

                      As at the reporting date, the Company determines that there is a significant increase in credit
                      risk given the subsidiaries’ financial position have deteriorated significantly which may lead to
                      high probability of default for the loans and advances to subsidiaries.

               (iii) Other receivables

               	Expected credit loss of other receivables is determined individually after considering the financial
                      strength of the other receivables. As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure
                      to credit risks is represented by their carrying amounts in the statements of financial position.
                      The Group has provided allowances for expected credit losses on certain of these amounts as
                      disclosed in Note 19.

                      Credit risk on sundry deposits mainly arose from deposits paid to landlord as security and utilities
                      deposit for rental of factory and office which will be received upon termination of such services
                      and thus have low credit risks. As at end of the reporting period, no allowance for impairment is
                      necessary in respect of these deposits.

               	The Group determines that there is a significant increase in credit risk on certain prepayment
                      paid to supplier as a partial advance payment to purchase machineries and packaging
                      materials. Given the Group’s restructuring plan done in prior year, may lead to high probability
                      of default for remaining payment to supplier. As a result, the Group has provided allowances for
                      impairment in respect of these prepayment as disclosed in Note 19.

                                                                                                                                         151
              REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

        NOTES TO THE
        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         (Cont’d)

         33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

                  (a) Credit Risk (Cont’d)

                          (iv) Cash and cash equivalents

                          	The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions.As at the reporting
                                 date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
                                 statements of financial position. These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks.
                                 Hence, a loss allowance is not necessary.

                          (v) Financial guarantees

                                 Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk

                          	The Company provides financial guarantee to bank in respect of banking facilities granted to
                                 subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and
                                 repayments made by the subsidiaries.

                                 Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral

                          	The maximum exposure to credit risks of the Company amounts to RM19,943,693 (2023:
                                 RM25,727,633) representing the outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiaries as at the end
                                 of the reporting period. The financial guarantee is provided as credit enhancements to the
                                 subsidiaries’ banking facilities.

                                 Recognition and measurement of impairment loss

                          	The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the subsidiaries’
                                 financial positions deteriorate significantly.The Company considers a financial guarantee to be
                                 credit impaired when:-

                                 -	The subsidiaries are unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
                                 -	The subsidiaries are continuously loss-making and is having a deficit in shareholders’ fund.

                          	The Company determines the probability of default of the guaranteed loans individually using
                                 internal information available. The fair value of the financial guarantee is negligible as the
                                 probability of the financial guarantee being called upon is remote at the initial recognition as
                                 the borrowings of the subsidiaries are adequately secured by assets as disclosed in Note 24.
                                 Should the subsidiaries defaulted any loan repayments, the proceeds from the realisation of
                                 assets will be able to satisfy the outstanding debts.

                  (b) Foreign currency risk

                          Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will
                          fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.

                  	The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
                          currencies other than the functional currency of the Group entities, which is RM.The currencies giving
                          rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”).The Group and the Company practise prudent
                          liquidity risk management to minimise the mismatch of financial assets and liabilities and to maintain
                          sufficient credit facilities for contingent funding requirement of working capital.

                  	The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies to pay its foreign
                          purchases as a natural hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency risk.

                          Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currencies other than functional currency of the Group
                          entities are kept to an acceptable level.

152
                                                                              Annual Report 2024

                                                                NOTES TO THE
                                                 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                             (Cont’d)

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(b) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)

Exposure to foreign currency risk

	The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional
       currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting period is
       as follows:

					 2024                                                  2023
					RM                                                       RM

Group

Denominated in USD			

Trade receivables				 7,729,252                             12,004,492
                                                                  28,256
Other receivables				–
                                                             1,444,581
Cash and bank balances				                       1,192,267  (6,326,498)

Trade payables				 (3,499,371)                                  (16,390)
                                                            (9,470,097)
Other payables				 (7,183)

Borrowings				 (7,235,387)

					 (1,820,422) (2,335,656)

Foreign currency risk sensitivity analysis

	The following table details the sensitivity analysis to a reasonably possible change in the foreign
       currencies as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held constant:

		Group

		 Increase/(Decrease)

				2024                                                    2023

				RM                                                      RM

Effect on results after tax/equity:			            91,021     116,783
RM/USD - Strengthened by 5% (2023: 5%)			        (91,021)   (116,783)
RM/USD - Weakened by 5% (2023: 5%)			

(c) Interest rate risk

       Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
       because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly
       from interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities.

       In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the effective
       interest rates at the reporting date, in which they reprice or mature, whichever is earlier are disclosed
       in Notes 20, 24 and 26 respectively.

                                                                                                                         153
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

     (c) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)

     Exposure to interest rate risk

     	The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
            carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period is as follows:

     		 Group

     				2024                                                                  2023

     				RM                                                                    RM

     Fixed rate instruments                                       893,677           936,589
     Financial asset:			
     - Fixed deposits with licensed banks			                                –      (704,281)
     			                                                     (15,185,776)      (17,340,209)
     Financial liabilities:			
     - Lease liabilities				                                                –   (3,000,000)
     - Bankers’ acceptance				
     - Revolving credit				

     					 (14,292,099) (20,107,901)

     Floating rate instruments                                                  (2,072,180)
     Financial liabilities:			                                                  (9,353,202)
     - Bank overdrafts				 (1,759,429)
     - Term loans				 (7,903,434)                                              (11,425,382)

     					 (9,662,863)

     Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis

     	The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably
            possible change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period, with all other variables held
            constant:-

     		 Group		

     		Increase/(Decrease)

     				2024                                                                  2023

     				RM                                                                    RM

     Effect on results after tax/equity:			                  (37,601)          (43,416)
     Increase of 50 basis points (2023: 50 basis points)			   37,601            43,416
     Decrease of 50 basis points (2023: 50 basis points)		

154
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
       (d) Liquidity risk
       	Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting financial
               obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity
               risk arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group’s
               and the Company’s objective are to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility
               through use of stand-by credit facilities.
       	The Group’s and the Company’s liquidity risk management policy is to manage their debt maturity
               profile, operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure that refinancing, repayment
               and funding needs are met. In addition, the Group and the Company maintain sufficient levels of
               cash and available banking facilities at a reasonable level to their overall debt position to meet their
               working capital requirements.
               Maturity analysis
       	The following table sets out the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities
               as at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including
               interest payments computed using contractual rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of
               the reporting period):

                                                                                                                                        155
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

156
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(d) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

Maturity analysis (Cont’d)

		                                                             Contractual Cash Flows
		
		                                               On demand
		
		                           Carrying            or within			                             More than
                              amount                                                          5 years
                                                 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years                     RM                               Total
                                     RM                                                                                                RM
                                                 RM            RM          RM

2024                         14,779,836          14,779,836             –              –              –  14,779,836
Group                        13,632,542          13,632,542             –              –              –  13,632,542
Trade payables                                                          –              –              –
Other payables^               1,759,429           1,759,429             –              –              –   1,759,429
Bank overdrafts              15,185,776          15,185,776    895,044     2,685,132      6,265,308      15,185,776
Bankers’ acceptance                                            129,973       145,419                  –  11,359,952
Term loans                    7,903,434           1,514,468
Lease liabilities                319,709             129,973                                                 405,365

		                           53,580,726 47,002,024 1,025,017 2,830,551 6,265,308 57,122,900

Company                      164,954             134,954       –           –              –              134,954
Other payables
Amounts due to subsidiaries  3,508,368           3,508,368     –           –              – 3,508,368
Financial guarantee*
                                                 – 19,943,693  –           –              – 19,943,693
		
                             3,673,322 23,587,015              –           –              – 23,587,015

^	Exclude retirement benefits.
*	This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
33. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)

(d) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)

Maturity analysis (Cont’d)

		                                                             Contractual Cash Flows
		
		                                               On demand
		
		                           Carrying            or within			                                More than
                              amount                                                             5 years
                                                 1 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years                        RM                            Total
                                     RM                                                                                                RM
                                                 RM            RM             RM

2023                         20,010,259          20,010,259                –              –              –  20,010,259
Group                        15,837,400          15,837,400                –              –              –  15,837,400
Trade payables                                                             –              –              –
Other payables^               2,072,180           2,072,180                –              –              –   2,072,180
Bank overdrafts              17,340,209          17,340,209                –              –              –  17,340,209
Bankers’ acceptance                                            1,660,716      2,703,667      6,409,827
Revolving credit              3,000,000           3,000,000      230,353        342,386                  –   3,000,000
Term loans                    9,353,202           1,660,716                                                 12,434,926
Lease liabilities
                                 704,281             278,953                                                    851,692

		                           68,317,531 60,199,717 1,891,069 3,046,053 6,409,827 71,546,666

Company                      127,583             127,583       –              –              –              127,583
Other payables
Amounts due to subsidiaries  3,132,323           3,132,323     –              –              – 3,132,323
Financial guarantee*
                                                 – 25,727,633  –              –              – 25,727,633
		
                             3,259,906 28,987,539              –              –              – 28,987,539

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Cont’d)

157
^	Exclude retirement benefits.
*	This liquidity risk exposure is included for illustration purpose only as the related financial guarantees have not crystallised.
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     NOTES TO THE
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     (Cont’d)

     34. FAIR VALUES INFORMATION

            Financial instruments at fair value

            As the financial assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company are not carried at fair value by any
            valuation method, the fair value hierarchy analysis is not presented.

            Financial instruments other than those carried at fair value

            Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable
            approximation of fair values

     	The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
            term borrowings approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
            instruments and insignificant impact of discounting.

     	The carrying amounts of long-term floating rate loans approximate their fair values as the loans will be re-
            priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date.

     35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

     	The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
            Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Group monitors and maintains an optimal debt-to-
            equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.

     	The Group monitors capital using net debt-to-equity ratio which is the net debt divided by total capital.
            Net debt includes borrowings and lease liabilities, less cash and bank balances and fixed deposits with
            licensed banks whilst total capital is equity attributable to Owners of the Company.

     	The gearing ratio as at 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023, which are within the Group’s objective of capital
            management are as follows:

     		 Group

     				2024                                               2023

     				RM                                                 RM

     Borrowings (Note 24)				                  24,848,639   31,765,591
     Lease liabilities (Note 26)				               319,709      704,281

     					25,168,348                                        32,469,872

     Less:			                                  (8,338,811) (17,427,480)
     - Cash and bank balances				
     - Fixed deposits with licensed banks				  (893,677)    (936,589)

     					 (9,232,488) (18,364,069)

     Total net debts				 15,935,860                         14,105,803

     Total equity attributable to the Owners of the Company		 96,360,847 103,562,249

     Debt to equity ratio				                  0.17         0.14

158
                                                                                                                                                                                 Annual Report 2024

                                                                                                     NOTES TO THE
                                                                                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                                                   (Cont’d)

35. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (Cont’d)
       The net debt-to-equity ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company has no external borrowings.
       There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
       Under the loan covenant and terms of borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the following:
       (i) A subsidiary of the Company, namely Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd., is required to comply with the
               maintaining gearing ratio of no more than 1.50 times. For the purpose of computation, gearing ratio
               is defined as total bank borrowings divided by financing against tangible net worth (“TNW”), of which
               TNW is defined as the paid-up capital, retained profit and advances from related parties; and
       (ii) Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. is also required to maintain gearing ratio of no more than 1.00 times. For the
               purpose of computation, gearing ratio is defined as total bank borrowings divided by total net worth
               (less intangibles and pre-operating expenses) plus loans and advances from holding company.Total
               bank borrowings encompass the sum of bank borrowings that are not interest free.
       As at the reporting date, the Group is in compliance with the externally imposed capital requirement as
       mentioned above.

36. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
	On 10 November 2023, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a sales and purchase agreement to

       dispose two lots of property for a consideration of RM41,800,000. The transaction was completed on 30
       September 2024.
	On 21 December 2023, a subsidiary of the Company has disposed an investment property for a
       consideration of RM1,050,000.

37. EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD
	On 18 September 2024, a subsidiary of the Company has entered into a sales and purchase agreement

       to dispose an investment property for a consideration of RM4,650,000.

38. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
       The comparative figures were audited by another firm of Chartered Accountants.

                                                                                                                                        159
     REX INDUSTRY BERHAD

     List of
     Properties

     As at 30 June 2024

     Location/                        Description         Tenure     Land area        Date of       Net book
     (Registered owner)              (Lot/Title No)   (Approx. age   6.005 acre    Acquisition/        Value
                                    Industrial Land   of building)                *Revaluation
     Plot 125,                        with factory                                                  30/6/2024
     Bukit Minyak                                     60 years with              *30 August 2012      RM’000
     Industrial Park,               Industrial land      35 years
     Seberang Perai Tengah,         with warehouse      remaining                                     12,009
     Pulau Pinang.                                      (19 years)
                                    Industrial Land
     Plot 126,                        with factory    60 years with  1.740 acre  *30 August 2012    7,051
     Bukit Minyak                                       46 years
     Industrial Park,                   3 Storey       remaining
     Seberang Perai Tengah,         Semi-Detached       (9 years)
     Pulau Pinang.
                                        Factory       50 years with    38,218    *30 November 2012  12,310
     JI. Raya Beji Km 4 No. 42,                         21 years     sq. meters                     4,144
     Beji, Pasuruan, Jawa Timur,    3 Storey terrace   remaining
     Indonesia.                       Shop Office      (25 years)      2,024     10 August 2016
                                                                     sq. meters
     No. 7A, Jalan TIAJ 2/1,        Industrial land    Leasehold
     Taman Industri Alam Jaya,        with Factory
     Bandar Puncak Alam,               cum office     Freehold          149      5 August 2016      1,050
     42300 Selangor Darul Ehsan.                                     sq. meters

     22, Jalan Perniagaan                             Freehold        2.305      26 September 2019  15,908
     Seri Tambun,                                                    hectares
     Pusat Perniagaan Seri Tambun,
     14100 Simpang Ampat,
     Pulau Pinang.

     No. 1A, Jalan Kampung
     Sungai Suloh,
     Mukim Minyak Beku,
     83000 Batu Pahat, Johor

160
                REX INDUSTRY BERHAD                                      No. of Ordinary Shares held
                                                                         CDS Account No.
                [Registration No. 199301027926 (282664K)]                Telephone No.
                                                                         Email Address
                (Incorporated in Malaysia)

                                                    FORM OF PROXY

   *I/We (Full Name),
   bearing *NRIC No./Passport No./Registration No.
   of (Full Address)

   being *a member / members of REX INDUSTRY BERHAD [199301027926 (282664-K)] (“Rex” or the “Company”) hereby appoint:-

   First Proxy “A”                                  NRIC No./ Passport No.                            Proportion of Shareholdings
    Full Name (in Block Capital)                                                                                 Represented

    Full Address                                                                                      No. of Shares                                                  %

   *and/or                                          NRIC No./ Passport No.                            Proportion of Shareholdings
   Second Proxy “B”                                                                                              Represented

    Full Name (in Block Capital)                                                                      No. of Shares                                                  %

    Full Address

                                                                                                                                                                     100%

   or failing him/her, *THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as *my/ our proxy(ies) to participate, speak and vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf at the
   Thirtieth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at Kuala Lumpur Golf & Country Club, 10, Jalan 1/70D, Bukit Kiara, 60000
   Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 28 November 2024 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.

   (Please indicate with “x” in the space below on how you wish for your vote to be casted. If no specific discretion as to how a vote is given, the
   proxy will vote or abstain at his/her discretion)

   * Strike out whichever is inapplicable

   No.                                                     Agenda

   1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and
            the Auditors thereon.[6]

                                                                                                                                                                For  Against

     2.   To approve the payment of Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors amounting to RM204,000
          to be paid on a quarterly basis for the financial year ending 30 June 2025 and thereafter.
     3.
   4(a).                                                                                                                                      (Resolution 1)
   4(b).
   5(a).  To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM50,000 from 29 November 2024 until
   5(b).
          the next AGM of the Company.                                                (Resolution 2)
     6.
          To re-elect, Encik Adnan Bin Ahmad, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.       (Resolution 3)

          To re-elect Mr. Chee Cheng Chun, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 115 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.       (Resolution 4)

          To re-elect Mr. Hong Kok Cheong, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.       (Resolution 5)

          To re-elect Mr. Tam Kok Meng, who is due to retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the Company’s

          Constitution and being eligible, had offered himself for re-election.       (Resolution 6)

          To re-appoint Messrs. Raki CS Tan & Ramanan as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next

          AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.               (Resolution 7)

                                                    Special Business

   7. Ordinary Resolution No. 1
            Authority to Issue Shares pursuant to the Companies Act 2016 and waiver of pre-emptive rights. 		
                                                                                                                                                (Resolution 8)

   8. Ordinary Resolution No. 2

          Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a

          Revenue or Trading Nature.                                                  (Resolution 9)

   9. Ordinary Resolution No. 3                                                       (Resolution 10)
           Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares.

   Signed this                    day of                                 , 2024

                      Signature of Member                                                Common Seal to be affixed here if
   		                                                                                 Member is a corporation, if applicable

✄
Notes to the Notice of the Thirtieth AGM (“Meeting”):

1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose name appear in the Record of Depositors on
       21 November 2024 shall be eligible to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting or appoint
       proxy(ies) to attend, participate, speak and vote in his stead.

2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote in his stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy to attend,
       participate, speak and vote at the same Meeting, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies
       the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.There shall be no restriction as to the
       qualification of the proxy. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting of the Company shall have
       the same rights as the member to attend, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting

3.	The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the member or of his attorney duly
       authorised in writing, or if the member is a corporation, shall either be executed under the corporation’s
       common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.

4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
       Company for multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined
       under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, there is no limit to the number of proxies
       which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.

5.	The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any), under which it is
       signed or a duly notarised certified copy of that power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the
       Share Registrar, Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd. at Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela,
       Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than
       forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof.The lodging
       of the said instrument shall not preclude you from attending, participating, speaking and voting in person
       at the Thirtieth AGM should you subsequently wish to do so, provided a notice of termination of proxy
       authority in writing is given to the Company not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement
       of the Meeting or adjournment thereof

6.	This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) if the Companies Act 2016 does not
       require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements and only requires the
       Audited Financial Statements to be laid at the Meeting. Therefore, this Agenda item is not put forward for
       voting.
   Fold this flap for sealing

   Then fold here                                                                   AFFIX
                                                                                    STAMP
                                        The Share Registrar of Rex Industry Berhad
                                        Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn. Bhd.
                                        Level 7, Menara Milenium,
                                        Jalan Damanlela,
                                        Pusat Bandar Damansara,
                                        Damansara Heights,
                                        50490 Kuala Lumpur,
                                        Wilayah Persekutuan.

   1st fold here

✄
NoN.4o6.4C6,CP,lPazlaazDa aDmaamnasnasrar,aJ,aJlaanlaMn eMdeadnaSneStieati2a,2,
      BuBkuitkDit aDmaamnasnasrar5a05409409K0uKaulaalLauLmupmuprur

 TeTl:e(l:+(6+)60)30-32-021011511541242FaFxa: x(:+(6+)60)30-32-021011613663868
                 E-Em-amila: irl:erxe@x@rerxe.nxe.nt.emt.ymy
