[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year shaped up to be one of solid recovery post-COVID lockdowns,
amidst global volatile conditions and commodities inflation. We sharpened
our focus to keep upholding the trust placed in us by Malaysians and meet
their expectations for taste, quality and nutrition, while continuing to invest
in our brands to keep our bonds with the Rakyat strong, contemporary
and relevant. At the same time, we worked hard to identify savings and
efficiencies that helped us to cushion the impact of higher commodity costs,
moderating the quantum of the unavoidable price increases. Simultaneously,
we further stepped up our ESG agenda, with another year of solid progress
in our sustainability targets. With this determined approach, our sales reached its highest growth in
many years, to RM6.7 billion. This was contributed both by domestic and
export sales, which rose by 12.9% and 29.3% respectively.

[MDA_P002]
Key contributors
were the core F&B business as in-home consumption remained resilient,
coupled with a significant turnaround in the OOH business due to the lifting
of pandemic restrictions which led to increased mobility and a resurgence
in OOH consumption. The stronger sales coupled with prudent cost
optimisation initiatives and reduced COVID-19 expenses helped to cushion
higher commodity prices, unfavourable exchange rates and the bottom-line
impact of the Prosperity Tax. Ultimately, we delivered a higher profit after tax
of RM620.3 million, up by 8.9% from the previous financial year, while profit
before tax grew by 14.3% to RM859.5 million. Nestlé Malaysia stayed the course in 2022. We
maintained our positive trajectory and put all efforts to
continue delivering healthy, nutritious and great-tasting
products tailored to meet consumers’ expectations,
well-supported by demand generation activities and
constant search for operational excellence.”
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer

[MDA_P003]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Marking our 110th year in Malaysia, we continued to build on our well-established foundations
and the commitment and dedication of our teams across all functions, businesses, sales and
operations. Through their efforts we continued to retain our position as a strong leader in the F&B
industry and the largest FMCG in Malaysia. Our manufacturing, supply chain and distribution
operations ensured a steady stream of high-quality products that met consumer demand. Highest Growth in Decades, Record Sales
Exiting from the unprecedented conditions triggered by the pandemic and the related lockdowns,
we have seen the strongest sales acceleration in many years, building on the three pillars of
solid in-home consumption, rebound of OOH channels and acceleration of exports. Our leading
positions across the categories where we are present in combination with the work of our brand
teams, and the solid planning and execution by our sales teams and operations put us again in
the right position to capture all opportunities.

[MDA_P004]
Our portfolio foundations remain solid and we are
present in the right categories and channels to continue driving resilient and profitable growth. This was supported by demand generation initiatives to scale up the reach of our core products,
while creating excitement for our pipeline of product innovations, which served to boost sales in
key categories during the year. Innovation Continues to Play A Key Role to Drive Growth
In addition to constant efforts to ensure improved availability of core products to our customers
across all channels, innovating to meet emerging consumer needs played again a significant role. The growing awareness on the health and environmental impact of diets excessively based on
meat continues to support our efforts in the plant-based space, both with HARVEST GOURMET
as well as Dairy Free drinks under the MILO and NESCAFÉ brands. With the launch of HARVEST
GOURMET Plant-Based Nuggets, we expanded the reach of the category, while we continued
to establish solid foundations to grow consistently and sustainably in this space, in line with our
aspiration to make our PBMS a mainstream option accessible by large segments of consumers.

[MDA_P005]
Encouraging Malaysians to embrace plant-based products through our HARVEST GOURMET range. Providing Malaysians with more nutritional options under the brands they love was also an
important priority, with the launch of the MAGGI Nutri-licious noodles range (meeting Healthier
Choice Logo (HCL) requirements), the acceleration of MILO Hi-Fibre and the introduction of
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Dark Choc in powder formats, as well as NUTREN GlucoSmart, a specialised
nutrition product from NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE. We also took the Government’s announcement
of a sugar tax implementation as an opportunity to reformulate our recipe for our NESCAFÉ 3-in-1
product with less added sugar and saturated fat, leveraging our R&D expertise to rapidly bring a
new range to the market within only 100 days, with great consumer acceptance. MAGGI promoter enlightening consumer on our MAGGI 2-Minute Noodles product at a roadshow in East
Malaysia.

[MDA_P006]
Annual Review
Management Discussion and Analysis
Premiumisation remained another important platform with the launch of NESCAFÉ GOLD
Cappuccino Ice Cream, and the introduction of premium chocolate tablets under NESTLÉ LES
RECETTES DE L’ATELIER, complementing the expansion of KIT KAT Bars with new varieties and
distribution gains. Nurturing The Unique Bonds with Malaysians through Our Brands
The end of the lockdowns allowed us to reinitiate multiple activities to re-engage directly with
our consumers through a multiplicity of brand and sales activation events that reminded us of
the unique bonds of trust, love and respect that unites Nestlé brands with the Rakyat. Multiple
initiatives boosted the relevance of our engagement to strengthen the fundamental elements of
our value propositions across brands. To name a few examples, MILO continued to be the epitome of promoting healthy and active
lifestyles and supporting grassroots sports activities; and all of us at Nestlé felt humbled by the
spontaneous and enthusiastic reaction of the crowd when they saw our MILO truck participating in
the National Day Parade.

[MDA_P007]
MAGGI continued to empower women through our Wanita Cukup Berani
campaign while building proudly on the nation’s culinary heritage through MAGGI SAH Malaysia. During Ramadan, KIT KAT donated part of its sales revenue to charities supporting the needy and
NESCAFÉ proudly advanced our NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme as part of our vision to
support farmers and put Malaysia back on the global coffee map. Malaysians cheering for our MILO truck at the National Merdeka Parade 2022. Iman, our Nestlé Cares volunteer alongside our a representative of our NGO partner, Empire Project helping
to pack wholesome products to be donated to B40 communities in conjunction with Ramadan. Scan me
Doing Well While Doing Good: Advancing Our ESG Agenda
For years, our CSV programmes have built on the idea that we can generate solid financial returns
while contributing positively to society in many fronts.

[MDA_P008]
This vision certainly starts with the support to
underprivileged communities through various programmes, having invested some RM15 million in
community outreach programmes including flood relief efforts, food donations and a meaningful
and ongoing collaboration with the Malaysian Red Crescent Society (MRCS). While taking great pride in our community support programmes, the sense of urgency created by
the awareness on climate change and its implications is driving the acceleration of our ESG agenda
at all levels. On the sustainability front, we have already passed our peak carbon and peak plastic
levels and we are advancing to meet our reduction commitments. The adoption of renewable
energy across all our sites through the Green Electricity Tariff programme and the global action of
Nestlé to optimise the carbon footprint of our ingredients are already delivering results.

[MDA_P009]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
On the plastic reduction side, we further pioneered new initiatives
such as the adoption of recycled PET (rPET) for our bottled
drinks and the replacement of plastic with sustainably-sourced
paper in our MAGGI bowls range. Chief among our efforts was
the progressive expansion of our plastic neutrality initiatives as
part of our voluntary Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
commitment, and more specifically our Door-to-Door Collection
and Recycling initiative now scaled up, reaching 112,000
households by end-2022.
Allow me a few words also on Project RELeaf, our reforestation
initiative aiming to plant three million trees by end of 2024, after
the forced impasse created by lockdowns, when we could not
access planting sites. Post COVID-19, activity has resumed
strongly and we are on track to complete one million trees by
May 2023 and advance decisively towards targeted milestones.

[MDA_P010]
Our ESG progress through the year is well-detailed in our
Nestlé in Society Report 2022. Management Discussion and Analysis
Building ‘A Fit for Purpose’ Organisation to Win in The 21st Century
With the end of the lockdowns and the normalisation post-pandemic, we have
been able to return to more “normal” ways of working, with some clearly emerging
trends. On the one hand, the very strong need to re-engage and re-connect with
colleagues and teams as well as the expectation to find purpose and meaning in
one’s activity; on the other hand, the clear demand to improve work-life balance
and increased flexibility and more “freedom within framework”. In the later part of
2022, an internal survey confirmed these trends as well as the demand for more
agile processes, less bureaucracy and more communication and visibility on
career development. On the basis of this feedback, we are working to address a
number of these expectations, with some positive early feedback as we advance
through the process. Diversity and Inclusion remain very high in our priorities.

[MDA_P011]
With very healthy
gender balance ratios achieved, it is now about embracing equity and inclusivity
at all levels, including becoming even more an employer of choice, not only
when recruiting but also making sure that we continue to create an environment
where young talents can thrive and contribute proactively to our progress as a
team, with senior ranks being more receptive to ideas and hence creating more
platforms for innovative thinking at all levels. On the plastic
reduction side, we
further pioneered new
initiatives such as the
adoption of rPET for
bottled drinks and the
replacement of plastic
with sustainably-
sourced paper in our
MAGGI bowls range. NIS
All MAGGI HOT MEALZ has officially moved to sustainably-sourced paper bowls since December 2022. Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce.

[MDA_P012]
Annual Review
we will continue advocating the many attractive elements and
strengths of Malaysia as a preferred investment location with
multiple opportunities for future growth. CONCLUSION
There is no doubt that 2022 was a complex year, where the
positive environment for growth still came together with supply
chain disruptions around the world and multiple uncertainties
and volatility. We were tested and, as a team, we proved again
our ability to provide a set of resilient results to our shareholders
while advancing without hesitation in our mission of Good Food,
Good Life. As a team, we are confident that we will continue to
drive the Company forward, staying true to our purpose and
making a positive difference in the world and in Malaysia as a
force for good. Management Discussion and Analysis
Beyond this, we rolled out enhancements to the Nestlé Global Parental Support
Policy with extended maternity and paternity leaves and have recently also
provided guidance to optimise hybrid work arrangements in ways conducive to
both increase employee satisfaction and business efficiency.

[MDA_P013]
110 Years in Malaysia: Renewing Our Commitment, Investing in The Future
Nestlé has been unstoppably investing in Malaysia, preserving and expanding
our operational capabilities, though thick and thin; before, during and after
COVID-19. The inauguration of our PBMS facility in Shah Alam in 2021 was
followed in 2022 by significant capacity expansion projects in both our Batu Tiga
MAGGI and Chembong Ice Cream factories, amongst others. In 2023, we will
start a new round of projects that will bring approximately RM1 billion of capital
expenditure (CAPEX) over the next few years. Through these investments, we will
maintain the competitiveness of our factories and support the sustainable growth
of the business. We thank the Nestlé Group worldwide for renewing their trust in
Malaysia as a fundamental base for manufacturing and exports across Asia and
We will continue to
drive the Company
forward, staying true
to our purpose and
making a positive
difference in the world
and in Malaysia as a
force for good. Team Nestlé celebrating with the community of KITAR Recycling Programme.