[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
MARKET REVIEW
A. Strategic Review
In May 2023, the World Health
Organization (WHO) declared that
COVID-19
“no
longer
constitutes
a
public
health
emergency
of
international concern”. Yet, the global
macroenvironment is far from being
optimally healthy. Added to the long-
term effects of the pandemic, the
Russia-Ukraine conflict continues to
rage, there is now instability in Gaza,
and we are experiencing more and
more climate changes. Economically,
persistent inflation has resulted in
interest rate hikes. The International Monetary Fund, in
its World Economic Outlook released
in October 2023, predicts that global
growth will slow down to 3.0% in
2023 and 2.9% in 2024 from 3.5%
in 2022 – rates that fall short of the
3.8% average from 2000 until 2019. This deceleration is expected to
be most pronounced in advanced
economies, dropping from 2.6% in
2022 to 1.5% in 2023 and 1.4% in
2024. In contrast, emerging nations
will experience a significantly more
muted slowdown, from 4.1% in 2022
to 4.0% in both 2023 and 2024.

[MDA_P002]
In Malaysia, Bank Negara forecasts
that the economy will benefit from
robust
domestic
demand,
the
implementation of major infrastructure
projects as well as recovering tourism
to expand between 4.0% and 5.0%. Nevertheless,
this
is
a
marked
slowdown compared to the growth
of 8.7% in 2022, reflecting external
headwinds. While
Thailand
is
expected
to
experience a slower growth rate than
Malaysia – at 2.7% in 2023 – this is
higher than its economic expansion
of 2.6% in 2022. The slight increase
will be driven by private consumption
as tourism in the country recovers. Meanwhile, the Thai Baht has been
strengthening since 2022 due to
growth initiatives announced by the
government. INFLATION & INCREASED COST OF LIVING
Inflation in Malaysia has been increasing in the last few years, from -1.14% in 2020 to
+2.48% in 2021 and +3.38% in 20221. According to Bank Negara, core inflation in 2023
has been moderating, from 3.6% in the first quarter of the year to 2.8% in the second
quarter. However, inflation remains higher than the long-term pre-pandemic average of
2.0% from 2011-20192.

[MDA_P003]
In Thailand, meanwhile, headline inflation is expected to average
1.2% in 2023 as a result of measures to manage energy prices and improvements in
global supply chains3. Along with inflation and a higher cost of living, consumers are
more wary of how they spend their money. Other than essentials, consumers seek value
in their purchases. Businesses, meanwhile, have been impacted by increasing cost of
commodities and energy resulting in a higher cost of production for manufacturers and
higher cost of operations more generally. EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is no longer a distant threat. The effects of increasing levels of carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere is already being felt as
we experience more and more unexpected as well as unprecedented climate events. In recent years, the world has been recording all-time-high temperatures, intense
wildfires, more severe and prolonged droughts, hurricanes and floods.

[MDA_P004]
In response,
governments are pledging to reduce their GHG emissions while investors and other
stakeholders are requiring companies to make known their stand on climate change and
their approach, if any, on mitigating and managing the phenomenon. As the situation
becomes more urgent, companies are also being pressured into outlining programmes
being undertaken to achieve any targets that have been set. WASTE MANAGEMENT & CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION
Other than GHG emissions, a key environmental issue today is excessive consumption which
leads to the depletion of natural materials/resources as well as the accumulation of waste
that poses a threat to sustainability if it is not managed properly. Landfills are overflowing,
and the development of more units would require more land, an increasingly precious
natural resource. Meanwhile, indiscriminate disposal of plastics leads to blocked drains,
polluted rivers and flotsam in the oceans, posing a threat to marine life. Manufacturers are
under the spotlight as to how they manage their production and packaging in a manner that
is optimally protective to the environment. They are also being held accountable for post-
consumption waste management.

[MDA_P005]
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT & WELL-BEING
Following the Great Resignation that unfolded in the immediate aftermath of Covid-19, the
workplace today is experiencing another phenomenon – the Great Reflection. Perhaps as
a result of the work-from-home phase the world has gone through, people today are more
aware of what they want from their places of employment, and are more determined to be
in a workplace that ticks the right boxes4. Most importantly, according to leading human
resources consultancy Gartner, employees feel a need to be valued at work. There are five
main aspects to this, namely the need to: 1) feel a greater sense of connection with work;
2) have greater autonomy at work; 3) being given personal growth opportunities; 4) being
cared for holistically; and 5) feel invested in the company’s purpose. 1 https://www.macrotrends.net/countries/MYS/malaysia/inflation-rate-cpi
2 Economic and Financial Developments in Malaysia in the Second Quarter of 2023, BNM, https://www.bnm.gov.my/-/
qb23q2_en_pr
3 https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2023/11/08/pr23384-thailand-imf-staff-completes-2023-article-iv-mission
4 Employees seek personal value and purpose at work.

[MDA_P006]
Be prepared to deliver., Gartner, https://www.gartner.com/en/
articles/employees-seek-personal-value-and-purpose-at-work-be-prepared-to-deliver
KEY MARKET TRENDS

[MDA_P007]
• The completion of certain capex projects in recent years contributed positively in terms of operational efficiency and energy savings, which
helped the Group mitigate higher commodity and energy cost. • We continued to offer consumers value deals, such as twin packs for FARMHOUSE milk and economical 1.75L packs for various soft drinks,
which was extended to our sugarless 100PLUS ZERO in Malaysia. • In Thailand, we have also been diligent about offering value to our customers by giving more for less and catering to their specific
needs. For example, TEAPOT Sweetened Evaporated Milk (2 in 1) 1L were highly sought after by hawker customers to gain savings. Meanwhile, we kept them updated with new application and recipes to further boost their product offering. • To support our suppliers, we established the F&N Business Partner Award Programme to help them enhance their service and expand into
the region with F&N. • We have embarked on a phased implementation of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ahead of Bursa
Malaysia’s stipulated reporting timeline. In FY2023, we quantified material physical risks and key transition risks through scenario analysis.

[MDA_P008]
• We are intensifying efforts to rely less on fossil fuels for energy to reduce the Group’s GHG emissions. Following the installation of rooftop
solar PV system in our Malaysia and Thailand facilities, plans are underway to extend solar roof systems with total capacity of 6.38 MWp
to more facilities including our factories in Rawang in FY2024. • We were the first company in Malaysia to back 100% of the palm oil used in our products with RSPO credits, with a goal to transition to
100% physically certified palm oil by 2025. We currently utilised 60% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil, while the remaining 40% was through
RSPO credits. • To support our climate change efforts, we have amplified our sustainability awareness training across the Group, and aim for every
employee to undergo ESG training by 2025. • We have increased the use of recycled material in our packaging to 25% and aim for all beverage and dairy packaging to be 100% recyclable
by 2025 (2022:98%). Our new BORNEO SPRINGS is packed in FSCTM-certified paper cartons with caps made from sugar cane. • We manage food surplus by channelling them to charitable organisations and communities in need.

[MDA_P009]
Since 2019, we have established a
partnership with Yayasan Food Bank Malaysia to support the programme Food Bank Siswa. • To inculcate environmental awareness among the community at large, we collaborated with GRAB Malaysia, KLEAN and MRANTI to introduce
18 cutting-edge AI-powered Reverse Vending Machines across key locations in the Klang Valley. • We took the school recycling programme nationwide this year, attracting the involvement of 1,300 primary and secondary schools
throughout every state in Malaysia. To date, the F&N School Recycling programme has collected over 9,000 MT recyclables, preventing
them from going to landfill while educating schoolchildren the importance of 5R. • Respecting employees’ desire for better work-life balance, we have maintained a hybrid work arrangement. • To engender a greater sense of connectedness, we have resumed employee engagement platforms that had been suspended during the
pandemic, and are introducing more programmes such as bowling tournament, and creating an engaging communication platform via
Fraserian Connect, our award-winning mobile app.

[MDA_P010]
• We are enhancing employees’ safety and health via programmes such as the Safety, Health and Environment month, mental health
awareness initiatives, and the provision of free influenza vaccinations to over 1,000 employees nationwide. • To create a sense of personal safety and well-being, we rolled out an enhanced Prohibiting Sexual Harassment Policy across all our offices
in Malaysia. OUR RESPONSE

[MDA_P011]
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
A.

[MDA_P012]
Strategic Review
Material Issues
Product & Service Labelling
Human Capital Development
Packaging
Community Development
& Inclusive Growth
Nutrition
Economic Performance
Water Stewardship
Waste Management
Energy
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Employee Safety, Health
& Well-being
Human Rights
Policy & Regulations
Innovation
Product Quality & Safety
Governance & Ethics
Supply Chain Stewardship
B
E
F
N
H
G
J
K
O
P
Economic
Social
Environment
A
Key Risks
B
Other Financial Risks
A
Significant Increase in
Commodity Prices
Inability to Anticipate/
Respond Timely to
Changing Consumer Needs
Strategic Risk Involving
New Business Investment
F
Corruption, Fraud, Pilferage
& Ethical Risks
E
Risk from Disruptive Digital
Technology & Innovation
H
Managing Stakeholders,
Expectations & Perceptions
G
Non-compliance with
Laws, Rules, Regulations
& Standards
J
Political/International
Instability & Geopolitical Risk
Environmental Damage
Product Quality & Standards
K
Infectious Disease
N
Cyber Threats &
Data Security Risk
Health, Safety
& Security
P
Supply Chain Risks
O
Talent Management &
Succession Planning
Financial/
Economic
Strategic
Governance &
Ethics
Reputational
Operational

[MDA_P013]
Addressing Our Risks & Opportunities
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Extreme Weather Events and Other Environmental
Concerns (Emerging Risk)
Rising concerns associated with environmental
impact such as extreme weather events, water-
related risks, waste and pollution risks, and
biodiversity loss. At F&N, we recognise the role of business in protecting the environment. The transition to a circular economy offers opportunities to create
business value as well as minimise environmental impacts. • We are guided by our Environmental, Safety and Health Policy, which
ensures all major plants in the group are ISO 14001:2015 (environmental
management system) certified. • Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) elements are considered
and integrated into our business strategies, including capital
expenditure investment(s) to ensure business resiliency. • Various environmental-related sustainability targets and metrics have
been established, monitored, tracked and reported on periodic basis. • We undertake Environmental Impact Assessments prior to any project. • We partner with local communities to protect and preserve the
environment.

[MDA_P014]
• We strive for zero waste as well as zero pollution through continuous
improvement of our environmental management system. Climate Change
Packaging
Waste
Management
Energy
Biodiversity
Significant Increase in Commodity Prices
(Emerging Risk)
Commodities and material prices are influenced
by the global & local supply and demand, weather
conditions as well as regulatory changes imposed by
the government. As such, any significant increase in
prices of commodities and materials could materially
affect the cost and profitability of our products. • Commodities and materials price risk is managed through forward
purchase of key commodities, active monitoring of commodities price
trends, and vigilant sales forecasting and production planning. • In addition, we also source from multiple suppliers and origin of
commodities/materials as listed in our approved vendors list to enable
us to respond ably in the event of shortage in supply and/or increase
in price. • We also hedge our purchases using our enlarged and collective
purchasing capability. • Price adjustment would be considered as last resort to protect
profitability of the products.

[MDA_P015]
Biodiversity
Economic
Performance
Exposure to Fluctuations in Exchange Rates
In times of foreign currency market volatility, the
Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates against the local currency due to:
• Importation of materials for production;
• Exports of goods are traded in foreign currency;
and
• Overseas operations are valued in foreign
currencies. • The Group is guided by the Group Treasury Policy which outlines
the policy in hedging the identified and committed foreign exchange
exposure. • Typically, at least 60 per cent of our forex requirements are hedged to
manage fluctuating prices of commodities as well as forex movements. • Exports serve as additional natural hedge to cushion the impact of
depreciating local currencies. Economic
Performance

[MDA_P016]
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
A. Strategic Review
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Product Quality and Standards

[MDA_P017]
As a player in the food & beverage industry, the
Group is exposed to the risks associated with
product quality and standards as product safety and
quality are of paramount importance to the Group. The exposure in product quality and standards may
bring serious ramifications in terms of financial
impact as well as reputational impact. • Quality assurance cycle begins with suppliers’ pre-qualification and
approval, source or origin of raw materials, manufacturing facilities and
procedures, up to the distribution and storage of our products. • Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing,
packaging and storage, equipment and plant sanitization as well as
employee personal hygiene to prevent contamination. • Compliance with stringent quality systems in place such as ISO22000,
Food Safety System Certification 22000 and HACCP Certification by
Ministry of Health. • Contingency plans on product traceability and product recall/
withdrawal should such circumstances arise.

[MDA_P018]
Product Quality
& safety
Nutrition
Ability to Anticipate/ Respond Timely to Changing
Consumer Needs (Emerging Risk)
Consumers
are
becoming
more
informed
on
nutritional facts of their diet and adoption of active/
healthy lifestyles. This risk relates to the Group’s
ability to stay competitive and relevant to consumer
needs by building competitive advantage through
innovation. Should we fail to address the shift in the consumer
trends nimbly and effectively, it may result in financial
as well as reputational impact in the longer term. • Prioritise Research & Development initiatives on developing new
products and further improve our product offerings in food & beverages
to meet consumers’ demand for healthier choices which are in line with
the rising health and wellness trend, without compromising on taste. • Continuous improvement on the offerings of healthier choice products
in our innovation roadmap with target to offer a healthier option in
every product category that we are in. • Introduce new pack size as part of our portion control commitment. • Promote active lifestyles through programs that target schools and
communities.

[MDA_P019]
Innovation
Economic
Performance
Supply Chain Risks
The Group is exposed to risks associated with
anticipated or unanticipated disruption to the supply
chain and normal operations of the Group which
could be due to internal or external factors such as
extreme weather events, infectious diseases, etc. • Ensure sufficient inventory supply of key materials as well as finished
goods to minimise implications to the operations in the event of
disruption. • Regular engagement with internal and external stakeholders to ensure
resilience in the supply of materials amidst supply chain disruptions. • Group Business Continuity Management Framework (BCMF) has been
established which sets out the policies and procedures in relation to
response, recovery and restoration of business in the event of a crisis
or disaster. • Business Continuity Plans (BCP) are in place and being tested in
accordance with the BCMF. • Maintain healthy cashflow positions during crisis.

[MDA_P020]
Supply Chain
Stewardship
Energy
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Water
Stewardship
Cyber Threats and Data Security Risks
Amid the evolving technology-reliant business
environment, the Group is exposed to cyber security
threats from cyber criminals which may compromise
data integrity and even leakage of confidential and
sensitive information which is valuable to the Group. • The Group has developed Cybersecurity Framework to provide
guidance to businesses on managing cyber security risks. • Regular trainings via e-Learning platform and constant updates related
to cyber threats are provided to all employees to maintain awareness
level. • Implementation of Data Leakage Protection solutions to mitigate cyber
threats and data security risks. Governance &
ethnics

[MDA_P021]
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Managing Stakeholders’ Expectations and
Perceptions
Managing and balancing stakeholders’ expectations/
perceptions in relation to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) aspects such as human rights,
Halal assurance, community development and
inclusive growth have always been challenging as
ESG topics have rapidly climbing on the ranking of
top concerns amongst many leaders, investors, and
other stakeholders. • Proactive stakeholder engagements including shareholders & investors,
customers, suppliers, regulators, communities, and employees. • Full commitment from our Board of Directors in implementing our
strategic initiatives as well as sustainability priorities. • Policies and procedures are established, supported by dedicated
resources to implement the framework, and uphold the various
compliance standards, including Halal Governance and Assurance
Framework. • Stringent compliance with various compliance standards along
our entire value chain, from sourcing of raw materials to delivery of
products. • Close monitoring of news published in the media and response
procedures are in place to address circumstances should it occur.

[MDA_P022]
Product Quality
& Safety
Community
Development &
Inclusive Growth
Packaging
Climate Change
Water
Stewardship
Human Rights
Product & Service
Labelling
Fraud and Corruption Risks
The Group could be exposed to governance and
ethics-related risks such as fraud and corruption
practices involving employees and/or external
stakeholders which eventually may result in financial
losses and reputational repercussions. • Top-level commitments from the Board and Senior Management on
zero-tolerance towards unethical practices. • Awareness training programme for employees via e-learning platform
designed to enhance awareness in protecting the interest of the
Group. • Whistleblowing channel is available for internal employees as well
as the public to escalate concerns or report to the Receiving Officer
should there be any incident detected. Governance &
ethnics
Strategic Risks Involving New Business
Investments
• Cost-benefit analysis will be undertaken and financial viability of
business investments are diligently assessed in compliance with
investment guidelines.

[MDA_P023]
• Integrating Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors in
business investment valuations to better capture and manage the full
range of risks posed by ESG factors. • Verification, investigation and audit of investment opportunity
involving subject matter experts to confirm all relevant facts and
financial information are true and the potential business investment
meets business objectives before proceeding with new investments. • Keep track on tasks and follow ups to ensure relevant regulatory
requirements where the new business investments are established are
met. • Post-Implementation Review (PIR) is conducted at an interval required
by the policy after completion of the project. The PIR is conducted
to assess actual financial performance against the original feasibility
study assumptions besides update on the status of meeting the
business objectives. Product Quality
& Safety
Integration and
synergies
Community
Development &
Inclusive Growth
Packaging
Climate Change
Water
Stewardship
Human Rights
Product & Service
Labelling
Economic
Performance

[MDA_P024]
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE REVIEW
A. Strategic Review
BUILD
Building new capabilities and business opportunities
PASSION
PASSION
STRATEGIC DOMAINS
FY2023 Key Highlights

[MDA_P025]
Expanded into sports nutrition with 100PLUS PRO
High Protein, formulated to facilitate after-sports
recovery. Gained positive momentum with our NPDs
introduced such as 100PLUS ZERO and the TEAPOT
Evaporated Creamer UHT milk in 1L in Thailand.

[MDA_P026]
Expanded production capacity - drinking water
production plant at Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park, a
new mineral water line in Matang and an automated
ketupat line for Sri Nona in Rawang.

[MDA_P027]
F&N Agrivalley launches its foray into the upstream
fresh milk business with a groundbreaking ceremony
of the Group’s integrated dairy farm in Gemas, Negeri
Sembilan.

[MDA_P028]
Creation of new business growth in our Halal Food Pillar
with maiden contribution from Cocoaland companies this
financial year.
Priorities for 2024

[MDA_P029]
Continue to prioritise innovation across all facets of our
businesses, from new product development, channels management
to value chain activities to address the untapped market demand.

[MDA_P030]
Fulfilling our ambition to deliver the key milestones of the integrated dairy
farm in capturing opportunities in liquid milk and supporting the National
Food Security Agenda in dairy & beef.

[MDA_P031]
Fostering growth in halal food pillar and extracting business synergies from the
integration of Sri Nona and Cocoaland for further value mining.

[MDA_P032]
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening our core businesses for market leadership positions
Unlocking potentials of the Group to create maximum value
UNLOCK
FY2023 Key Highlights
Various capital investments had been completed and begun its contribution to the Group
through cost savings. Unlocked potentials among the existing talent pool and enhanced our leadership development
programme to support new business and future expansion. Strategic collaborations with key suppliers to achieve common partnership goals. E.g. F&N
Business Partner Award Programme. Leveraged on sukuk financing to unlock future business growth as well as diversifying our business
risks. Priorities for 2024
Unlocking opportunities through strategic partnerships collaboration with various stakeholders for value
creation towards business, environmental and social goals. Transitioning to next-level of strong governance company and establish programmes to improve operations, empower
our employees, strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and deliver business values. Unlocking values via effective financing and capital management strategies.

[MDA_P033]
FY2023 Key Highlights
Group revenue for the year crossed RM5 billion, underpinned by a positive recovery across all markets, effective
price and channel management strategies, and contribution from Cocoaland. Our export business contribution surpassed RM1bil mark, supported by a robust recovery in exports to
Africa, ASEAN and Greater China regions with global footprint expanded to 93 countries. Defended market share leaderships in Malaysia and Thailand within our core categories. Our continuous effort in marketplace, workplace and environment received external validation
through numerous awards and recognitions in Malaysia and Thailand, including becoming Top 1
percentile in of Global Food & Beverage Sector in FTSE4Good Index. Obtained extended rights from Nestlé to distribute BEAR BRAND sterilised milk in Cambodia. Priorities for 2024
Continue to strengthen our stewardship in our core categories and find new growth
potential through transformative projects to accelerate high growth via brand portfolio
management. Continue to leverage on digital and integrating technologies within our operations to
strengthen our route-to-market strategies while achieving cost effectiveness.

[MDA_P034]
Continue to drive operational efficiency, commercial excellence and fiscal discipline
across our value chain from raw materials, production, marketing & sales, and post-
consumption packaging management as we integrate ESG elements as part of
strategic management, where applicable. Continue to participate in industry policy making and strengthen our Halal thought
leadership in the Industry.

[MDA_P035]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
STRENGTHENING OUR HALAL ECOSYSTEM
F&N IS
COMMITTED
TO BE A
LEADING
PRODUCER
OF HALAL
PRODUCTS.
Halal Policy and Resources
made available to ensure
highest level of integrity to
stakeholders.
ESTABLISHING
GROUP HALAL COUNCIL (GHC)

[MDA_P036]
F&NHB has adopted a 2-tier halal management structure to embed the
halalan tayyiban guidelines and the Islamic Shariah Law requirements,
across our operations at the Group level:
•
F&NHB established a Group Halal Council in 2016 to embed the
halalan tayyiban guidelines, extending it into our operations and
our engagement with consumers and society.
•
The Group Halal Council is assisted by the Halal Affairs
Department.
•
A dedicated Internal Halal Committee is set up in each of our
manufacturing plants.
•
The Internal Halal Committee is responsible for all matters
pertaining to Halal compliance in our supply chain, from the
procurement of ingredients and raw materials, management of
manufacturing facilities and personnel involved in production
processes, to the storage, warehousing, and transportation of
our products.

[MDA_P037]
100% of our products are Halal-certified by relevant authorised
certification bodies including:
•
Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (JAKIM).
•
Majelis Ulama Indonesia (MUI).
•
Central Islamic Council of Thailand (CICOT).

[MDA_P038]
Our Shah Alam and Pulau Indah plant are awarded the Whitelist status by
JAKIM, in which Halal applications and approval are fast-tracked.

[MDA_P039]
Halal Assurance Management System (HAS) version 2020 is implemented
to maintain and ensure the sustainability of Halal production processes.
•
A pool of qualified Halal Executives is maintained to implement a
robust HAS.
•
Internal Halal Audits are conducted for all of our plants.

[MDA_P040]
We perform porcine analysis for our products and ingredients as further
assurance of Halal.

[MDA_P041]
Used equipment or machines brought into our factories undergo Shariah
sertu cleansing to ensure Halal integrity of our products.

[MDA_P042]
Our Halal Risk Management plan for all plants is reviewed to meet Halal
Assurance Management System (HAS) 2020 requirements.

[MDA_P043]
To ensure Halal compliance downstream our supply chain, Halal
awareness training are conducted for our key transporters, distributors
and suppliers.
•
We have conducted Halal training on 100% of our transporters to
ensure Halal compliance.
•
Halal audits are also conducted on our distributors to ensure Halal
compliance further downstream in our supply chain.
•
Specifically, this year we conducted Halal audits on our potential
recyclable PET bottle suppliers.
ENSURING HALAL COMPLIANCE
& INTEGRITY ACROSS OUR
VALUE CHAIN
Annual Report 2023
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd

[MDA_P044]
RECOGNITION TOWARDS OUR
HALAL COMMITMENT
JAKIM
(Malaysia)
MUI
(Indonesia)
CICOT
(Thailand)

[MDA_P045]
We continuously strengthen our employee’s Halal awareness and
understanding through:
•
Scheduled Halal Awareness programmes, including training,
contests and quizzes .
•
Scheduled training in Good Manufacturing Practices and Good
Hygiene Practices.
•
Prohibition of non-Halal foods and drinks within the factory
premises, including the office and canteen.

[MDA_P046]
Various trainings were organised to expand internal capacity:
•
100% of our employees, including newcomers undergo mandatory
Halal awareness training within 3 months.
•
This year, we have extended our Halal awareness training
programme to our foreign employees in their native language.
•
> 1,700 employees attended Halal-related training this year.
•
Employees with responsibilities in Halal matters also attended a
series of professional training related to Halal internal audits and
assurance.
CULTIVATING INTERNAL
HALAL CULTURE

[MDA_P047]
We facilitate positive collaborative engagement with Halal authorities
such as JAKIM, Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) and Halal
Development Corporation Berhad (HDC).
•
Partner with JAKIM and JAIS in community outreach programmes.

[MDA_P048]
We actively engage with the Department of Malaysia standards through
Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) to provide our input
towards developing Halal-related standards, such as:
•
Sertu standards.
•
Malaysian Standard 1514 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP
for Food) - Halal Industrial Park - General Requirements and
Guidelines.

[MDA_P049]
To further propel the Halal eco-system, we partner HDC on the Halal
Sourcing Partnership Programme, a capacity-building programme aimed
at:
•
sharing Halal industry best practices - providing technical advice
and knowledge transfer to small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
•
coaching SMEs to elevate their capability to be qualified as Halal
vendors for multinational companies.

[MDA_P050]
Through the programme, we have provided mentorship to 16 SMEs who
have high potential to elevate their business capacity.
•
In 2021, we successfully onboarded one SME as our ingredient
supplier for F&N Kurma Madu Cordial.
•
In 2023, we hosted a pitching session aimed at recruiting potential
suppliers through the programme. A total of 14 SMEs actively
engaged in this pitching session, demonstrating their interest in
becoming our potential partners in our on-going journey.
•
We are in the midst of developing more Halal SMEs to become our
suppliers or co-manufacturers.

[MDA_P051]
We also actively participate in knowledge-sharing sessions such as:
•
World Halal Forum 2023.
•
World Halal Business Conference Australia 2022.
•
Halal Sector Forum 2023.

[MDA_P052]
We also support HRDCorp by providing our input towards the
development of Industrial Skills Framework for Food & Beverages –
Food Manufacturing, particularly in career development related to Halal
Industry.
FACILITATING EXTERNAL
ENGAGEMENT TO UPLIFT HALAL
ECO-SYSTEM
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
•
Halal Innovation Excellence
Award

[MDA_P053]
World Halal Excellence Award
2022 (WHEA 2022)
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
•
A constituent of the
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia
Shariah (F4GBMS) Index
100% HALAL- CERTIFIED
PRODUCTS

[MDA_P054]
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
BUSINESS REVIEW
SUCHIT
RIEWCHAROON
Managing Director,
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
NG
ENG CHEANG
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations Malaysia
GRAHAM
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations
(East Malaysia & Brunei)

[MDA_P055]
DATO’ RAFFIQ
BIN MD ARIFF
Managing Director,
Foods and Industry Engagement
BRYAN LEE
CHEE KONG
Managing Director,
Cocoaland
(Retired on 31 October 2023)
LAI
MING KONG
Managing Director,
International Markets Development