[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
“
”
OVERVIEW & JOURNEY IN THE NEW NORMAL
From an operational angle, FYE 2022 has been a challenging year as the nation went through different
Movement Control Order (MCO) phases. The constant adjustment to the Group’s operating procedures
to ensure compliance with the Government’s Standard Operating Procedures (“SOPs”) was felt heavily
especially in the retail channel, owing to the fact that the Group has significant Food and Beverage
("F&B") components offering dine-in experiences for a variety of cuisines. Despite this challenge, the Group has managed to open 2 new outlets in Bandar Seri Putra, Selangor
and Taman Nusantara, Johor while the wholesale channel set up another distribution centre in Gua
Musang, Kelantan, bringing the Group’s total to 20 centres in 10 out of the 11 states in Peninsular
Malaysia. The Group’s journey in FYE 2022 was a continuing story of operating under lockdown conditions,
particularly in the early part of the financial year under review.

[MDA_P002]
Governmental SOPs to close all non-
essential businesses and services impacted the Group’s operations and potential earnings from the
retail channel as the retail outlets had to comply with certain SOPs including restricted dine-in, social
distancing, closure of schools, malls and non-essential sectors had also affected foot traffic. Although
the bakery section of the Group’s operations was classified as essential goods and was allowed to
operate, the impact to revenue stream from the café operations was dampened during this period. Part of the Group’s responsibility as a caring corporate citizen was to ensure the wellbeing of its
employees during this period. The Group participated in the employees’ vaccination program under
PIKAS to increase its employees’ vaccination rate and ensure the customers’ wellbeing and peace of
mind through this action. In addition, when market activities resumed, it also ensured that the Group
was ready to function at normal operational capability in the endemic stage. The Group pivoted its strategy to meet the pandemic challenge by introducing a digital solution to
meet market demand.

[MDA_P003]
The market was still hungry for the Group’s products, so to reach and serve the
customer base better, the Group improved and refined its online and delivery channels which was set
up in FYE 2021. This improvement allowed the Group to receive customers’ orders via a greater range
of internal and external food delivery platforms. As a responsible employer, the Group also retrained
its outlet staff for customer service, allowing them to handle online and mobile orders, and deploying
some for the delivery service. This, coupled with the Group’s vaccination program participation, showed
that the Group cares about both the physical wellbeing as well as the career path of its employees. 014 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022

[MDA_P004]
During this quiet period, which lasted up till the middle of FYE 2022, the Group intensified its F&B’s research and
development ("R&D") programs, swinging into full roll out once the Government announced the easing of pandemic
restrictions. Its refinement of products and offerings, along with a new café menu was incubated during this period. On the operation front, the business development team looked into new potential locations for expansion, while
simultaneously renegotiating existing tenancy agreements with malls and landlords for rebates and rental relief during
this period. The wholesale channel was also affected by the COVID-19 restrictions as there was lower demand for wholesale bakery
products from customers due to the closure of hotels, schools, factory canteens and others. This knock-on effect to the
Group’s order book allowed for some corresponding strategies including:
a. The review of distribution networks and reorganisation of sales distribution routes of affected delivery vehicles;
b. Expansion of coverage area by sourcing new customers;
c. Promotional marketing campaigns at local and regional retail chains to boost sales; and
d.

[MDA_P005]
Expansion of customers base through collaboration with more local and regional retail chains. Thankfully, as the vaccination rate of the nation rose and the country entered the endemic phase, there was a relaxation
of SOPs by the third quarter of FYE 2022. This meant that the economy and interstate borders were fully reopened. With
the easing of SOPs, all F&B outlets were reopened for normal operation hour and dine-in with social distancing observed
became the new norm. The Group’s R&D during the quieter period of the pandemic paid off. Customers walked in again
and the Group experienced a recovery in sales figures from the café operations. Meanwhile, the wholesale orders began
to flow in once again as the economy regained strength. REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Retail Channel
The chief success of the retail segment over the years has been the Group’s fundamentals in providing excellent service,
affordable and delicious food with nutritious and healthy qualities. The diversity of offering and variety in the menu is
also what caters to the customers’ tastebuds. On the financial side, the Group exercises prudent spending and balances
its R&D activities with the scalability of roll out.

[MDA_P006]
In FYE 2022, the Group experienced slower operations, especially in malls, when they were closed temporarily under the
Government’s lockdown rules. However, the Group’s key strategic pivot towards the enhancement of food ordering and
delivery experience for its customers was realised through the improvement in delivery services and collaboration with
externally established food delivery service providers. In line with this, the Group’s R&D introduced changes to the café
menu for better product variety and experience for customers as well as launching a ready-to-eat series of products to
cater to the ever-changing palate of customers’ preference. All of these activities added to the Group’s previous innovation of having its own contactless payment system through
the SDS mobile application, which includes an e-Wallet feature, customer hotline service that facilitates pre-ordering,
collection or delivery of products and a rejigged marketing strategy of selling festive items on third-party online platforms
has helped the Group reached out to its customers during the pandemic and also adapt to the new norms of consumer
behaviour. ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 015
SDS GROUP BERHAD

[MDA_P007]
Financial Indicators
FY2022
RM’000
FY2021
RM’000
Difference
(%)
Revenue
198,283
173,778
14.1%
Gross Profit
61,596
52,988
16.2%
Gross Profit Margin
31.1%
30.5%
1.9%
Profit Before Tax
14,103
9,589
47.1%
Profit After Tax Attributable to
Owners of the Company ("PAT")
10,618
7,271
46.0%
Net profit margin
5.4%
4.2%
28.0%
Wholesale Channel
As mentioned in the overview, the wholesale channel’s market penetration grew with the addition of the Gua Musang
distribution centre, however the first half of FYE 2022 required a relook into the Group’s distribution network as closures
of non-essential sectors had a knock-on effect on the Group’s order book. Among some of the actions taken by the Group
included cost control over the replanning of sales distribution routes and streamlining the operating and manufacturing
processes. On the customer end of operations, the Group improved its variety of products and offered it to customers at
reasonable and competitive prices. The accessibility to customers became the Group’s main innovation for this channel
as it ensured that coverage and customer base of the distribution network was improved.

[MDA_P008]
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & KEY CORPORATE HIGHLIGHTS
The Group’s year-on-year trend shows strong performance with a healthy revenue growth of 14.1% from RM173.78 million
in FYE 2021 to RM198.28 million in FYE 2022. This has in turn reflected on the Group’s PAT of RM10.62million in FYE 2022
as compared to RM7.27 million in FYE 2021, representing an improvement of 46.0%. All in all, the Group’s financial performance is mainly attributable to a variety of internal and external factors, chief of
which was the gradual easing of lockdown and increase of economic activities through FYE 2022. The return to a new
normal saw the increase of footfall in the retail channel and the reopening of schools, factory canteens and interstate
borders all helped bolster the Group’s order book and increased the demand for wholesale channel. The Group’s recognition of the higher profit is in line with its realisation of higher revenue. Along with the Group’s
effective cost management in controlling the challenges from the pandemic, its sales planning allowed the Group to
reduce the goods returned rate. All these translates to more accurate profit realisation from its sales channels. 016 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022

[MDA_P009]
Liquidity and Capital Resources
FY2022
RM’000
FY2021
RM’000
Net cash from operating activities
32,485
24,377
Net cash for investing activities
-8,986
-4,038
Net cash for financing activities
-20,572
-13,178
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
2,927
7,161
Effect of foreign exchange translation
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year
17,185
9,982
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year
20,118
17,185
Shareholders were also delighted to note that two rounds of dividends have been announced by the Group in respect of
FYE2022. The first interim single dividend of 0.25 sen per ordinary share amounting to approximately RM1.01 million was
declared by the Board of Directors on 27 August 2021 and fully paid up on 30 September 2021. On 27 May 2022, the Board
of Directors declared a second interim single tier dividend of 0.50 sen per ordinary share amounting to approximately
RM2.03 million with an entitlement date of 13 June 2022, and fully paid up on 30 June 2022. The Group would like to
express its gratitude to its shareholders for the trust and belief they have in the Group’s management and operational
excellence to produce such a financial outcome.

[MDA_P010]
In addition to the key financial highlights above, the Group has been managing its liquidity and borrowings
prudently. In the year under review, the Group has seen an increase in cashflow from operating activities grow by
33.26% or RM8.11 million mainly due to the increase in operating profit. To expand the business’ capacity, the Group
has invested in activities such as the opening of new retail outlets, acquisition of new delivery lorries, and plant and
machinery amounting to RM8.99 million over the course of the financial year. In FYE 2022, the Group has increased
its commitment to pare down borrowings which contributed to the net cash flow for financing activities of RM20.57
million, shaving off the Group’s gearing ratio from 0.60 in the previous year to 0.35 in FYE 2022. The IPO proceeds have also been fully utilised by the Group in the fourth quarter of FYE 2022. With a healthier cash
position and lowered gearing ratio, the Group is more agile to pursue various modes of expansion when the right
opportunity presents itself. ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 017
SDS GROUP BERHAD

[MDA_P011]
KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
Among the key business opportunities that have presented itself to the Group include the influx of customers from
Singapore to the Johor outlets the moment international borders were reopened. The surge in human traffic reflected
the growth in demand from the F&B retail segment. The gradual easing into the new normal also presents an opportunity
for the Group to enhance its geographical footprint particularly in the Central Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new retail
outlets and the Northern Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new distribution centres. In fact, as recent as June 2022, the
Group has opened a new distribution centre in Alor Setar, Kedah. The R&D arm of the Group continues to introduce new
F&B offerings to meet the customers’ tastes and expectations. In the meantime, the Group is cognisant of the risks and actively anticipate known business risks to the Group through
its Risk Management framework, which is discussed in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control on page
046 of this Annual Report.

[MDA_P012]
Connecting business risks with its strategy for Sustainability is key in understanding the Group’s
framework on Sustainability. The Sustainability Statement for the Group can be found on page 019 of this Annual Report. Meanwhile, the Group identifies the main known risks from three main areas, which are People, Marketplace
and Industry. People
In any given business, the main challenge has been and will always be the people who turn the wheels of the business. In the case of the Group, we foresee that the flow of talent to a neighbouring country such as Singapore would increase
as the economy picks up and the borders have reopened. The attraction of talent to Singapore is purely economic due to
the exchange rates between the two nations’ currencies. The departure of talent has left a vacuum in the employment
market with many outlets facing severe shortage of front-line staff. In contrast to this, the freeze on hiring foreign labour during the MCO has resulted in manpower shortages for the factory
production line. During the course of this financial year, the management had to relook into production processes to
mitigate this issue.

[MDA_P013]
Marketplace
In the space of the return to the new normal, new F&B retail outlets have been growing like mushrooms after the rain. Competition for market share and dominance has now become stiffer than before. Some of the risks in new market
segments are product dominance as there is a duplicity of products in a highly competitive market. The improvement in logistics in the endemic period has also seen an increase in overseas quality brands which are
brought in from franchising businesses. The digital nature of e-commerce platforms which were the mainstay during
the pandemic has also posted new challenges in the shape of online sales on a regular basis to gain a larger foothold
in the market. In addition to this, individual and standalone businesses have also surged in popularity with their
homemade products that are marketed on social media. All these contribute to a more dynamic marketplace with
increased competition for the attention of the man in the street. Industry
One of the direct impacts of the endemic and global events has brought a new wave of cost-pushed inflation to our
shores.

[MDA_P014]
We have seen the recent rise in raw material prices corresponding with a surge in the consumer product
prices. With this rise, the Group is developing strategies to mitigate this impact, using a mixture of resources
allocation and cost control management. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Throughout this past year, the Management would like thank our employees for their hard work, diligence and
support during the unimaginable pandemic and subsequently, endemic times. The Group also wishes to thank
the various stakeholders that have ensured the business’ success and sustainability. Though there are too many to
name individually, we would like to thank our shareholders, investors, clients, suppliers, business partners, bankers,
Government and Regulatory bodies for their continued support, trust and confidence in SDS Group Berhad. 018 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022