document_id: MDA_3662_MFLOUR_2024
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion
and Analysis
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 25
Similarly, in aquaculture, we are committed to continuous innovation and refi nement of our products to
enhance the quality of our aqua feeds and better meet client specifi cations. Financial Performance Highlights
During the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), MFM delivered a commendable performance,
with the Flour and Grain Trading (“FGT”) segment in Malaysia and Vietnam being the key driver of our strong
fi nancial results. The FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam saw profi t after tax grow by 82.5% to RM126.1 million in FY2024
from RM69.1 million previously, while maintaining a stable revenue base of RM3.1 billion. The signifi cant
bottom-line growth was driven by higher sales volume and stable raw material prices. Conversely, 2024 proved to be a challenging year for the poultry segment, which was impacted by consumer
boycotts arising from the geopolitical confl ict in the Middle East. Additionally, the removal of subsidies and
higher reversal of deferred tax assets further weakened the segment’s performance.
[MDA_P003]
The Group’s PI segment, through the 51% equity stake in DTSB and its subsidiaries, ended FY2024
with a PAT of RM3.1 million, 93.9% lower than RM50.7 million in the previous year. The lower profi t was
achieved on a fl at revenue of RM1.1 billion. Likewise, the share of profi t also declined to RM1.6 million from
RM25.9 million in the prior year. Meanwhile, the Group’s 30% joint venture in Indonesia, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”), continued
to face headwinds due to heightened market competition in the country, coupled with a drop in export sales
volume. However, BFMI signifi cantly reduced its loss after tax to RM30.0 million from RM66.5 million in the
prior year, as a result of improved margins and higher sales volume of processed wheat. Revenue remained
largely the same at RM2.3 billion. At the Group level, the strong performance of the FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam more than compensated
for the weaker results from the PI segment and the underperformance of Indonesia’s operations. In addition,
the Group recognised a one-off impairment loss of RM42.1 million in FY2024, premised on BFMI incurring
losses for three consecutive years.
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Operations Highlights
Flour and Grain Trading Segment
In 2024, global markets for key food commodities, including wheat, remained relatively stable. Favorable
weather conditions in some regions helped offset uncertainties arising from the existing geopolitical confl icts,
ensuring a steady supply. While commodity prices experienced fl uctuations, they generally trended toward
moderation, alleviating cost pressures across the supply chain. Against this backdrop, demand for fl our remained robust, particularly in Malaysia and Vietnam. In Malaysia,
steady consumption from food manufacturers and households provided a solid foundation for growth. Meanwhile, Vietnam’s expanding bakery and instant noodle industries drive higher fl our consumption,
refl ecting shifting consumer preferences. Due to stable commodity prices and stronger consumer demand, the FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam
recorded healthy growth. Sales tonnage in Malaysia increased by 5.1% year-on-year in FY2024, while Vietnam
operations saw an 18.4% rise in quantity sold.
[MDA_P008]
Simultaneously, we will maintain a steady supply of
raw materials and price our end products to align with market needs. Poultry Integration Segment
Our PI business in FY2024 was affected by the boycott of Western quick service restaurant (“QSR”) chains
following the Middle East geopolitical confl ict, which led to lower demand and impacted sales. Despite the challenging environment, we continued to increase our broiler production by 6.2% year-on-year
to more than 50 million birds, mainly attributed to our own farms and contract farms. The achievement was
largely due to our farming operations using best farming practices and deploying technology that enables
high yield from the farms. However, throughout the year under review, demand for product segments for the fast food services channel
was lower than in FY2023, as a result of the boycott. In response, we strategically mitigated the slowdown and
pivoted our market attention to selling whole birds to food retail channels, which helped optimise utilisation
in our PI operations.
[MDA_P010]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 27
In terms of sales to the market, our retail channel recorded strong year-on-year growth of 60.7%, helping to
offset weaker demand from the food service and manufacturing segments in FY2024. For the food service
sales, we saw a gradual recovery towards the end of FY2024, and we remain optimistic that the segment will
return to normal levels in the near term. The challenges faced in FY2024, which were beyond our control, have underscored the importance of
diversifying our customer base. We are actively expanding beyond Western QSR brands and exploring new
growth avenues, including ready-to-eat products, which remain in the early stages of development. MFM
remains open to strategic opportunities that will drive long-term growth in this segment. Anticipated or Known Risks
As a food manufacturer, food safety and compliance with industry standards are our top priorities, given the
widespread consumption of fl our and poultry across diverse cultural, racial, and religious backgrounds. To uphold consumer confi dence, we have implemented Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points
(“HACCP”) protocols across all our manufacturing facilities.
