document_id: MDA_9946_ETA_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 21, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Our History and Business
Rex was incorporated on 26 November 1993 as a private limited company under the Companies Act 1965 by
the name of Kompetitif Pertama Sdn Bhd. The Company acquired the entire issued and paid-up share capital of
Rex Canning Co. Sdn Bhd, Rex Trading Sdn Bhd and Rex Foods Sdn Bhd and took on the function as a holding
company in conjunction with the listing of Rex on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ("Bursa Securities"). The
Company changed its name to Rex Industry Sdn Bhd on 5 February 1994. It was converted to a public limited
company on 16 February 1994 and adopted its present name. Rex was listed on the Second Board of Bursa
Securities on 29 November 1995. Rex Group is involved in the manufacturing of canned food, beverage and confectionary products. Rex Canning
Co. Sdn. Bhd. a wholly owned subsidiary of Rex was founded in 1965 and has since grown into a leading
manufacturer, distributor and exporter of halal canned products, frozen food, and beverages in Malaysia.
[MDA_P002]
PT
Rex Canning Indonesia (“PT Rex”) began commercial operations in August 1992; with principal activities in
manufacturing and exporting of canned processed seafood. PT Rex operates under stringent standards set by
the Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries of Indonesia. Most of the PT Rex’s canned seafood is exported to the
US and EU. Our strength lies in providing quality products that cater to the taste preferences and budgets of our growing
population. Our Policy
Towards producing trusted products for all consumers, food safety best practices are core to our business. They
are implemented throughout the chain from sourcing to manufacturing and delivery, to ensure compliance
with local and international food safety standards and manufacturing best practices. Financial Performance
For the financial year ended (“FYE”) 30 June 2024, the Group recorded a revenue of RM130.52 million which
represents a reduction of approximately RM31.89 million when compared to the preceding financial year of
RM162.41 million. The decline in revenue was mainly due to weaker demand from both local and overseas
market.
[MDA_P019]
Annual Report 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
(Cont’d)
Changes in the composition of the Group
There were no changes in the composition of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2024. CORPORATE EXERCISE
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Rex Canning Co. Sdn. Bhd. has completed the disposal of the land
and buildings bearing the address plot 125 & 126, Jalan Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 5, Taman Perindustrian Bukit
Minyak, 14100 Simpang Ampat, Seberang Perai, Pulau Pinang for a disposal consideration of RM41.80 million
on 30 September 2024. The proceeds from the disposal will be utilised firstly to repay bank borrowings, secondly for working capital
required on day-to day operations of the Group and lastly to defray expenses related to the disposal. Outlook and Prospects
The Group expects the business environment in the remaining year to remain challenging due to uncertainties
that pose risks to business including the on-going global geopolitical tensions, inflationary pressures and rising
costs of raw materials, packaging materials together with uncertainities in logistic cost and availability.
[MDA_P020]
The Group will continue to focus on improving our performance through product innovation, new product
launches, improving operational efficiency, adopting cost saving measures and broadening the distribution
network to grow the Group’s revenue and profitability. Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board, I take this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to our new Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Mr Hong Kok Cheong and new Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, Mr Tam Kok
Meng, who have been appointed to the Board on 13 March 2024. Their combined experiences and expertise
will contribute positively to the strategies and direction of the Group. I would like to record our appreciation to previous members of the Board, Tan Sri Dato’ Mohd Ibrahim and Mr Tai
Keat Chai for their invaluable contributions to the Company during their tenures as Directors of the Company. I would also like to thank my fellow Board members, our shareholders, customers and business partners for their
continued support, trust, and unwavering confidence over the past years. To all our staff and management team, thank you for your dedication and commitment in driving the Company
to greater heights.
