document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 34, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Nonetheless, our operations for the financial year ended 31 March 2023 (“FY2023”) was disrupted with geopolitical
issues and inflationary concerns which saw impact on the business’ supply chain, higher ingredient costs as well
as pricing of its products. In response to the price escalation trend as well as keen competition, SDS leveraged on its own innovation efforts
to produce creative products to stay competitive and meet consumers’ expectations for a more exciting fare. This
has also paved the way for the expansion of SDS customer base and strengthening of earnings in recent years. Backed by a strong local market presence and its solid manufacturing and logistic capabilities, SDS focuses on
production efficiency and cost management and continuously offers quality, value-for-money products. The Group is firm on its journey to unlock the potential of new customers through wider market reach, strategic
distribution centres as well as accelerating the momentum of online purchases.
[MDA_P005]
Although there was a great pressure over the increasing price of raw materials, SDS displayed high resistance
power and has achieved optimisation in its operating costs to cushion the negative impact. The Group’s unique
proposition of wide-ranging product offerings and options on sales channels had allowed SDS to continue to meet
the demands of its customers.
[MDA_P026]
Concurrently, the Group expanded its R&D team and facilities to be ahead in meeting the demand for its products.
The use of warmer display was its latest feature and has garnered good response. Some of the Group’s bakery
products were sold in warm temperature to improve their attractiveness. Due to the good response, SDS has since
created new products series specially for warmer display. Other outcome coming from product research include
ready-to-eat, ready-to-drink, and frozen products as well as sauces. New special menus were also launched during
festive period together with some new bakery products namely Chocolate Tuxedo Cheese Cake, Fudgy Choco
Velvet, Snowy Almond Croissant and more.
[MDA_P028]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Management Discussion
and Analysis
KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
Embarking on expansion of its business, performance improvement of fleet and innovation of new product offerings
have not only improved market share and provided cost savings for SDS but has also brought along potential risks
and challenges. The Board and Management team have been vigilant and continue to take the necessary measures to
mitigate the potential threats that may be disrupting the smooth running of the business. SDS employed risk management process of risk identification, impact assessment, profiling matrix and the mitigation plans,
based on the general principles of the risk management framework. The Group were aware of intensified competition
and challenging environment given inflationary pressure, high food cost, labour shortage as well as increased awareness
on carbon footprint. Some of the mitigation action plans included product diversification to keep up with the customers’
changing preferences and taste. Other measures involved in detailed analysis of products disposals for retail outlets in
order to reduce cost.
[MDA_P029]
The Group has created a benchmark for disposal which resulted in significant reduction in cost due
to better monitoring and control. On logistic risks, SDS ensured its delivery trucks were regularly inspected and proper scheduled maintenance were in
place. With 21 distribution centres in 10 out of the 11 states in Peninsular Malaysia, SDS distribution channels involved
supermarkets, convenience stores, mini marts, petrol kiosks, factories and schools. The logistic teams have established
proper sales plans in reviewing routes as well as assessing the requirements to further expand the number of vehicles for
efficient distribution. Specific details on SDS’s risk management areas are provided in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
of this Annual Report.
[MDA_P030]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Management Discussion
and Analysis
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
Moving into FY2024, sustaining consumption demand will
be a key challenge in the prospect of global economic
slowdown or recession. With the looming high inflation,
twin effects of slower demand and rising input costs could
significantly impact corporate earnings. In the case of SDS,
it is imperative to ensure steadiness in the various revenue
streams, opening more F&B retail outlets at lower capex
outlay and efficient distribution activities for its wholesale
segment. The Group is optimistic of the growth projections
for each of the core segments they ventured into. SDS has successfully attained a listing transfer from the
ACE Market to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, which took place on 8th May 2023. On the retail
side, the Group also plans to set up more retail outlets
adding to the total of 36 outlets it already has.
