document_id: MDA_3662_MFLOUR_2020
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 9, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The net interest expenses reduced by RM1.1 million
to RM17.3 million in 2020 as compared to the
previous year primarily due to the lower interest rate
environment throughout the year. As at 31 December 2020, our Group’s total assets
stood at RM2.58 billion with cash and cash
equivalents of RM404.6 million. Our Group’s EBITDA
decreased by 24.6% to RM125 million in the current
fi nancial year as compared to RM165.7 million
previously. Review of Operation
In 2020, due to challenges faced from COVID-19
pandemic with several lockdowns in the country,
rising cost of raw material and low utilisation of
capacity, our Group’s revenue was fl at and profi t
was severely reduced as compared to the prior
year. Nevertheless, the Vietnamese Dong (“VND”)
remained stable in 2020 at VND23,190 to a United
States Dollar and coupled with higher sales volume
of fl our, had enabled better overall contribution
in fl our segment.
[MDA_P003]
Overall, the sentiment in poultry
integration segment was dampened due to the
reduction in demand from the food service channel
as restaurants were closed for dine-in arising from
the implementation of Movement Control Order
(“MCO”) which began in March 2020. The fl our and grains trading segment experienced
a year-on-year growth of 2.4% to RM2.03 billion
from RM1.98 billion due to higher sales volume in
fl our. The grains sales volume was 2% lower than
previous year due to the lower demand of feed as
resulted from lower consumption of meat during the
lockdown period. The Group’s share of profi t from the joint venture
in Indonesia, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia
(“BFMI”) amounted to RM1.0 million as compared to
a share of profi t of RM14.1 million in the preceding
year. Whilst demand for fl our remained strong,
BFMI recorded lower profi t in 2020 mainly due
to higher depreciation and interest cost due to
commencement of operations of new manufacturing
facilities during the year. Amidst positive progress in the fl our and grains
trading segment, we will continue our efforts to drive
production effi ciency through better fl our extraction
and blending process.
[MDA_P004]
The poultry integration segment recorded a lower
revenue amounting to RM653 million in 2020 as
compared to RM701.5 million in the preceding year
due to lower sales volume of live birds sold externally
as well as lower average selling price of poultry
processed products. This segment incurred an
operating loss of RM70 million in 2020 as compared
to an operating loss of RM32 million posted in the
preceding year. The loss was mainly due to lower
margin of the poultry processed products due
to competitive pressure coupled with the high
overhead cost of new plant which had not achieved
economies-of-scale as capacity utilisation remained
lower than the optimum utilisation level. There was
also a higher fair value loss on biological assets of
RM2.1 million in 2020 compared to a loss of RM1.09
million in 2019. Despite the immense challenges in the poultry
integration segment in 2020, we are continuously
implementing progressive efforts to improve feeds
quality, better farm-house hygiene and higher bio-
security controls to mitigate future spread of diseases
and improve broilers quality.
[MDA_P005]
With the improvements
on track, we will be able to reduce production costs
through optimum feed conversion ratio and lower
mortality rate. With the commissioning of our new
poultry processing plant in Lumut, processing
capacity had increased by 3 times to slaughter live
chickens and further process into higher value-
added products for a wider industry base, retailers
and consumers. This would reduce the segment’s
exposure to the volatile prices in live bird trading
and generate better profi tability from value-added
products.
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Anticipated or Known Risks
Food safety and compliance to standards are top
priorities for us as a food manufacturer as usage
of fl our and poultry is very wide and diverse and it
cut across different cultural background, race and
religion. To ensure our customers and consumers
can use products produced by us without any
worry or doubt, we have implemented Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) in
all our manufacturing facilities. At the same time,
all our products are halal certifi ed by Department
of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”) and are
subject to annual compliance audit. Due to the nature of the poultry industry which
faces inherent risk of avian diseases outbreak,
we are always vigilant in managing our farms with
comprehensive bio-security measures in place. In summary, we are confi dent that based on our
track record and leading position in the fl our and
poultry industries, our Group will be able to mitigate
such risks with our proactive and preventive
measures put in place.
