document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 23, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Nevertheless, the pace
of economic recovery is also dependent
on other factors, including the efforts in
mitigating the downside risks, such as
geopolitical uncertainties, global inflation
as well as tightening financial conditions,
as stated in the report. These factors have
been driving food and oil prices to new highs. Some immediate short-term measures have
been taken by governments around the world
which include imposing price controls and
trade restrictions. As for consumers, the price
surge has certainly resulted in cutting back
consumption including changing behaviour
on food consumption. The market and consumer data provider
Statista has reported that revenue in the
global food market amounted to US$46.78
billion (RM206.77 billion) in 2022 and is
expected to grow annually by 8.2%
(compound annual growth rate [CAGR] in
2022 to 2027). The market’s largest segment
is confectionery and snacks with a volume
of US$9.2 billion in 2022. These statistics
augurs well for companies such as 3A which
depends on the transformation of consumer
behaviour on F&B consumption.
[MDA_P003]
Given the price escalation trend as well
as keen competition, food ingredient
manufacturers have a lot more role to play. When partnering with food manufacturers
and providers, 3A Group leverages on our
own R&D to produce tailor-made products
for specific customers. This has paved the
way for the expansion of 3A’s customer
base and strengthening earnings in recent
years. Backed by a strong local market
presence, our Group is confident of our ability
to support the growth of the region, with our
solid manufacturing capabilities and a proven
reputation for product quality. The Group is
firm on its journey to unlock the potential
of new customers through a customised
Profit Before Tax
(PBT)
RM47.8
million
Profit After Tax
(PAT)
RM35.1
million
[MDA_P010]
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
(III) EARNINGS
Despite the record high revenue
achieved, profit for the Group
have been impacted by higher raw
material costs, energy costs, labour,
transportation and other related
expenses in FY2022. The Group
profit before tax and profit after
tax had reduced to RM47.8 million
and RM35.1 million respectively in
FY2022 as compared with RM62.5
million and RM46.5 million respectively
in FY2021. Nonetheless, the Group
plans to continue to adjust product
selling prices and new formulation
of Marketing Strategies that involve
product target market, sales mix and
selling prices, in response to changes
in the industry. The Group’s gross profit margin has
also been affected as compared to the
previous year from 18.7% to 13.4%
in FY2022. The prices of major raw
materials of the Group, particularly
corn starch and tapioca starch had
increased significantly in FY2022 as
compared with FY2021. (IV) ASSETS & LIABILITIES
Total borrowings have also increased
to RM20.247 million mainly in the form
of bankers’ acceptances to finance
higher inventories holdings in tandem
with current business requirements.
[MDA_P011]
The inventory requirements have
been the main factor on the cash
and bank balances of the Group, as it
registered a reduction of almost 62%
as compared to previous year’s figures. The Group required higher cash flow
needs for our inventory holding and
operational activities. Our major
raw materials are tapioca and corn
starch, sugar and soybean meal. The
commodity price volatility continues
to present challenges to the Group. Nevertheless, the Group continues
to adopt a dynamic inventory holding
policy to mitigate this challenge and
also attempts to pass on significant
costs movement to customers through
product selling price. Total assets and shareholders’ equity of
the Group grew to RM509.048 million
and RM420.107 million respectively
as at 31 December 2022. In addition,
the Group’s earnings per share for
the year was 7.2 sen and net asset
per share was at 85.8 sen as at the
end of 2022. efficiency which will further generate
our cost savings.
[MDA_P012]
(VI) MARKETING AND CUSTOMER BASE
EXPANSION
In ensuring that 3A is ahead of its
competitive edge, we are working
closely with our existing customers and
potential new customers to strengthen
the business relationship for both short
and long terms. More significantly,
(V) PRODUCTION
Throughout the years, plant expansions,
upgrading and modernisation
continued to be undertaken as part
of the long-term operational efficiency
initiatives. The Group had acquired
more advanced product packing
machines, monitoring apparatus to
improve efficiency such as flow meter
and hydro heater. Plant expansion
was also an important undertaking
to achieve economies of scale. The
outcome of ongoing improvements
will increase automation which will
enable us to reduce the dependence on
foreign labour as well as enhance plant
we are striving to gain loyalty with our
customers through deep understanding
and hands-on information sharing
regarding key matters such as varieties
of business, food safety, formulas and
batches, regulatory compliance, sales
and profitability and critical success
factors.
