document_id: MDA_7216_KAWAN_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 27, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Revenue
(2022: RM274.8 million)
RM287.2
million
Profit Before Taxation
(2022: RM40.1 million)
RM34.3
million
Cash & Cash
Equivalents
(2022: RM98.6 million)
RM104.3
million
OVERVIEW
In
adapting
to
the
changing
global
environment, we took the opportunity to
transform the Group to meet these, and
future challenges; refocus on the consumer,
streamline our supply chain and route
to market, strengthen our balance sheet,
improve cashflow, construct a bolder vision
and purpose as well as, detail a more robust
business strategy for the next five years,
and cascade it down the organisation in a
balanced scorecard. In addition to these
measures, we put better controls in place to
strengthen our leadership platform amidst
an increasingly competitive landscape, and
to extend our market lead in terms of quality
and sustainability in the frozen food space.
[MDA_P002]
These initiatives include better internal
controls and the upgrading of our processes,
leading to increased production efficiency,
a stronger supply and distribution network,
both locally as well as in our export markets;
and aligning the total route to market, from
our suppliers to our consumers, in line with
our strategic direction to create win-win
partnerships, as well as making the tough
calls on unprofitable segments. Even in transition, our revenue increased
by 4.5% to RM287.2 million from RM274.8
million in FY2022, showing early promise. The
challenging environment combined with the
higher cost of implementing our initiatives
to build a stronger platform for the future
impacted our profit before tax (“PBT”) from
RM40.1 million in FY2022 to RM34.3 million
in FY2023. We have sacrificed short term
profitability for longer term sustainable
growth. These initiatives underscore our
commitment to navigate the complexities
of the market now, and into the future. This
demonstrates our proactive stance and
agility in responding to market dynamics
amidst challenging conditions in order to
continually reinvent ourselves.
[MDA_P005]
KAWAN FOOD
BERHAD
Kawan
At A Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
Market trends
We remain mindful of the evolving trends
that are shaping the food and beverage
industry. Consumer
preferences
are
changing constantly and we are committed
to adapting our strategies to meet their
needs in a responsible and sustainable
manner. Convenience
As the pace of life intensifies, consumers are
increasingly seeking quick and convenient
options
such
as
ready-to-eat
meals,
snacks, and beverages that offer on-the-go
consumption convenience. Health and wellness
There is growing awareness of environmental
and health concerns resulting in healthier
eating habits that drive the demand for more
nutritious food options, whilst emphasizing
the importance of reducing environmental
impact across the supply chain. Sustainability
Sustainability is becoming an important
consideration for consumers who prefer
brands and products that are committed to
offering environmentally friendly products
with sustainable packaging solutions. Cost of living crisis
The ongoing cost of living crisis driven by
high inflation and rising energy costs has
influenced consumer behaviour.
[MDA_P007]
ANNUAL REPORT
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Our Commitment to Good
Corporate Governance
This year marked the beginning of our new chapter on a transformative journey,
where we undertook significant changes at scale and pace, to reach our targets. We refined our priorities and worked closely with our teams, value chain partners,
and stakeholders to drive meaningful changes. Our strategic roadmap for the medium term focuses on sustainable and
accelerated profit growth. We have made substantial progress in recalibrating our
strategy by establishing clear goals to streamline our operations, boost profitability,
and creating sustainable growth opportunities through:
Our strategic initiatives improve our long-term supply and quality assurance,
mitigate rising costs and sustain competitive margins. By aligning all stakeholders,
we will provide our consumers with superior value whilst building more dependable
partnerships with our suppliers and customers, and a more rewarding environment
for our staff and their families, as well as society at large, and, improved returns for
our shareholders.
[MDA_P008]
In the first half of FY2023, we developed robust improvement plans with a focus on
cost management and capacity utilisation. We are pleased that despite facing
challenges during the first half of the year, we have successfully executed initiatives
such as SKU rationalisation, cost control measures, and operational capability,
effectively managing cost amidst an inflationary environment. Simplifying the
business with a focus on more sustainable high-growth and profitable segments,
we have sacrificed marginal profit segments with lower growth. Going forward, our strategic focus will continue to evolve with ongoing initiatives
in new product innovation, sustainability, people and skills development; and
acquisition, sales and operations planning, maximizing capacity utilisation, and,
identifying capital expenditure needs, operational excellence, and using technology
as an enabler. This strategic direction allows us to navigate challenges, capitalise on opportunities,
and drive sustainable growth, reinforcing our commitment to long term value
creation for our stakeholders.
