document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 20, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
OPERATIONAL & BUSINESS REVIEW
Every challenge also brings new opportunities, and our teams
remained focused, proactive and entrepreneurial to tap into
each potential opportunity. Nestlé Malaysia
continued to
demonstrate resilience
throughout the year,
weathering through
a global pandemic to
turn in another stable
performance for 2020. Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
[MDA_P003]
15. Annua l Revie w
Our business focus continued to build on the pillars of
previous years, namely:
1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum;
2. Continue nurturing the love and trust in our brands;
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for the
future; and
4. Leading the industry’s way into a greener future. 1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum
As more people stayed at home due to movement restrictions,
we found new ways to engage consumers via digital tools and
explored innovative approaches to help deliver our products
to consumers. Underpinning this was our manufacturing
and supply chain resilience which allowed us to maintain
operational continuity, coupled with excellence in sales
execution supported by our best-in-class sales force to ensure
on-shelf availability. Driving digital engagement and e-commerce
Throughout the year, we continued to engage our consumers
digitally and further ramped up our online activations. We explored new models such as live streaming and shifted
from traditional product launches to online events, offering
consumers an interactive online shopping experience and
successfully increasing our reach.
[MDA_P004]
Through this, we saw the
launches of several new offerings such as NESCAFÉ Latte
Milk Tea coffee mixes and MAGGI FUSIAN Sarang Kimchi and
Karai Miso bowl noodles. We also leveraged on the Dalgona
coffee craze, with a live stream event featuring how Dalgona
coffee can be prepared using NESCAFÉ products. Campaigns such as the Nestlé Super Brand Day and
11.11 drove significant traffic to our products across key
e-commerce platforms and helped accelerate our online
penetration, leading to record-breaking achievements during
the big online sales days. All these allowed us to drive strong
growth in e-commerce, further reinforcing our position as the
biggest e-commerce business among the Nestlé markets in
Southeast Asia. Exploring new business models to reach out to consumers
Responding to the shift in consumer behaviour towards
higher in-home consumption, categories like Ice Cream took
on the challenge to continue delighting Malaysians at home. The new NESTLÉ Ice Cream Home Delivery business model
proved to be a resounding success when it was first piloted
and was subsequently rolled out nationwide within a week of
launching.
[MDA_P005]
Our Ready-to-Drink (RTD) business also further expanded
their presence online – making a wider range of Nestlé
products available for online purchase, as well as rolling out a
new home delivery option for RTD products such as MILO and
NESCAFÉ Original cans. Supporting out-of-home operators
Conscious of the profound impact to out-of-home channels,
the NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL team focused on supporting
local F&B operators impacted by COVID-19. Through the
Bangkit Bersama Nestlé campaign, we rolled out trade
assistance programmes and provided cash contributions to
help support coffee shops, mamak shops and other eateries
and restaurants. This saw us channelling a total of RM5 million
to more than 15,000 local F&B operators to help keep their
businesses afloat. In addition, we reached out to professional chefs nationwide
via an online cooking competition, MAGGI Wok Bersamamu,
with cash prizes up for grabs. Chefs were able to take part
by uploading videos of themselves cooking creative dishes
utilising MAGGI professional products and demonstrating
their culinary skills.
[MDA_P006]
Manufacturing and supply chain excellence
Throughout the pandemic, we upheld our commitment
to ensure continued production and delivery of our foods
and beverages to consumers. Our manufacturing, supply
chain and distribution operations demonstrated remarkable
resilience and agility, allowing us to provide Malaysians with
a stable supply of essential products across our brands such
as MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ, whilst strictly adhering to the
safety requirements set by the Government. Best-in-class sales execution
Serving a wide spectrum of customers and consumers
throughout the nation with diverse preferences and
requirements, our extensive sales network continued to play
a core role in driving performance and ensuring continuous
availability of products for all Malaysians during the pandemic. Our sales force plays a decisive contribution to revenue growth. Working as a cohesive unit together with other functions,
brands and geographies in Malaysia, this enables our sales
team to keep a pulse on evolving needs of the retail ecosystem.
[MDA_P009]
NIS
More information on our response to the COVID-19 outbreak can be
found on page 49 onwards of the Nestlé in Society Report. Our KIT KAT Break Bus dropping off KIT KAT products for our frontliners at Hospital Sungai Buloh, Selangor. The KIT KAT team also donated products to benefit over
12,000 healthcare workers in six hospitals in the Klang Valley,
encouraging frontliners to take a short break for themselves
during their efforts to combat the pandemic. A donation drive was spearheaded by EVERYDAY Milk,
sponsoring over RM4.5 million worth of nutritious EVERYDAY
products to more than 85,000 Malaysians from vulnerable
communities. Our Sampling team distributing MAGGI Bubur Lambuk to B40 communities during the month of Ramadan. We distributed more than 120,000 bowls of MAGGI bubur
lambuk to B40 families, charity homes and frontliners. On top
of this, the MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign donated a total of
50,000 meal kits to B40 communities nationwide. Through Program Mentor Wanita Cukup Berani MAGGI, more
than 900 women benefitted from a three-day Wanita Cukup
Berani MAGGI online workshop.
