document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2024
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 73, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
A HISTORIC MILESTONE & MASSIVE TRANSITION TOWARDS RESPONSIBLE GROWTH
2024 was history in the making for Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad. One notable milestone was bidding farewell to
our iconic DLMI@PJ manufacturing facility, established in 1966 to produce our first product, sweetened condensed
milk. Over the years, we continued to innovate with evolving nutritional and consumer needs such as liquid milk and
powdered children’s formula. DLMI@PJ held great significance for many. For consumers, it was a trusted source of
dairy for their families. For our employees, suppliers and customers, it was a hub of collaboration and growth. For
passers-by, it stood as a distinct landmark in Petaling Jaya, featuring the iconic Daisy and Maya cow figurines and the
Dutch windmill replica. Beyond these, DLMI@PJ’s most enduring contribution was the realisation of our purpose: to build
a healthier nation by Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life. Secondly, the year marked our complete relocation to our 13-hectare DLMI@Enstek manufacturing facility, which is
three times larger in land size and twice as large in capacity as our previous DLMI@PJ facility.
[MDA_P004]
We are well-positioned to achieve our ambitions for 2030 and beyond, as we work to unlock the full potential of our
new state-of-the-art, IR4.0-enabled manufacturing facility. DLMI@Enstek will play a crucial role in strengthening our
commitment to: 1) Fostering long-term public-private partnerships to enhance Malaysia’s dairy sector, particularly in raw
milk production, and 2) Addressing the triple burden of malnutrition in Malaysia, especially among children under 12 years
old. Our strategic investment in DLMI@Enstek exemplifies our dedication to driving profits with a purpose. CHALLENGES THAT CONTINUE DUE TO EXTERNAL PRESSURES
We continued to experience volatility in both global and local markets, with fluctuating prices of dairy raw materials and
foreign exchange rates. This has increased the cost of doing business in an already challenging operating environment,
compounded by ever-evolving regulations and policies. Businesses locally and regionally continued to find opportunities
to innovate their business models, strengthen governance, build resilience and future-proof people and product solutions.
[MDA_P005]
At DLMI, our core strategy for managing external pressures is to prioritise prudence in managing our financial and resource
investments. This approach ensures we achieve adequate cost savings, explore alternative revenue-boosting measures,
and most importantly, maintain a motivated workforce. We continued to play a pivotal role in industry coalitions
such as MAREA and CAN, where we demonstrated
leadership in driving their respective agendas effectively. DLMI assumed the chair for MAREA and catalysed the
launch of Malaysia’s first DEI Guidelines in CAN. We will
continue to actively participate and collaborate with our
industry peers to shape future best practices and even
policies to raise the bar on sustainability performance. In line with our purpose of Nourishing Our Nation, DLMI has
partnered with the Petaling Jaya Parliamentary Office to
support a social enterprise project, the “Healthy Eating and
Nutrition Programme for Children” (Program Pemakanan
Sihat dan Nutrisi Kanak-Kanak).
[MDA_P019]
Topline Revenue: Key Drivers, Challenges, & Measures
In 2024 DLMI’s revenue showed a modest increase in at 0.2% to RM1,445.1 million from RM1442.8
million in 2023. Revenue performance remained strong in our core portfolio of liquid milk and IFT
products as well as our professional range. In the third quarter of 2024, the company successfully completed the planned transition from the
Petaling Jaya factory to the new facility in Bandar Enstek. This planned transition temporarily affected
the availability of products for sales to our customers. This had no impact on the availability of our core
range of products for consumers in stores. As part of the transition DLMI also strategically discontinued
the production and distribution of some of our non-core Dutch Lady range of products. DLMIs strategic expansion is a pivotal move that not only facilitates DLMI’s continued growth, but it
also creates new opportunities to solidify our position as the leader in the Malaysian Dairy Industry with
innovations aligned to changing consumer preferences, such as the Dutch Lady “Sip & Seal” packs which
were launched in the second half of 2024.
[MDA_P020]
This and other product innovations added to the strong
revenue performance in our core portfolio. During the year, pricing strategies were carefully calibrated to balance two critical objectives, to maintain
product affordability for consumers and to safeguard the company’s underlying profit margins. Price
adjustments were limited to a small portion of the portfolio. Additionally, we continued with our revenue
growth management initiatives. I am happy to share that our market share remained robust, confirming
DLMI’s position as the leading dairy manufacturer in Malaysia. ANALYSIS OF PERFORMANCE
The year 2024 was a truly remarkable year for Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI) and in
many ways a year of transition. The company said goodbye to our manufacturing facility in Petaling
Jaya, which has been at the heart of our operations for more than 60 years. At the same time
we inaugurated our new state-of-the-art IR4.0 facility in Bandar Enstek, which opens new horizons
with an outlook of doubling our production capacity. Whereas the Malaysian economy showed
positive growth figures, consumer spending patterns remained cautious.
