document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2024
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 44, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
HEINEKEN Malaysia delivered
strong financial results in 2024,
showing significant progress
from the previous year, fueled
by strategic marketing efforts
and the successful launch
of innovation products that
resonated well with consumers. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
At HEINEKEN Malaysia, we are guided by our purpose, ‘Brew
the Joy of True Togetherness to Inspire a Better World’, creating
memorable experiences that bring people together and foster a
sense of community. We have remained resilient amidst challenges
by aligning our initiatives with our growth strategy, EverGreen, to
future-proof our business. A key aspect of this strategy is to drive
superior growth by investing in our brands and diversifying our
offerings to cater to evolving consumer preferences, ensuring we
meet market demands. This approach, coupled with a cost and
value optimisation mindset to fund our growth, has enabled us to
achieve financial growth despite external pressures.
[MDA_P002]
We continue
to invest in becoming the best-connected brewer, raising the bar
on sustainability and responsibility and unlocking the potential of
our people to be in a strong position to seize future opportunities. Looking ahead, we aim to continue advancing our journey
of learning and growth through our EverGreen strategy and
continue to deliver balanced growth. The following is a review of
our financial performance, operational progress, sustainability
and responsibility efforts and our outlook for 2025. OUR PERFORMANCE
In
2024,
our
Company
demonstrated
strong
financial
performance, marking a significant improvement over the
previous year. HEINEKEN Malaysia Group achieved a total
revenue of RM2.80 billion, marking a 6% increase from the
previous year’s RM2.64 billion. The Group also recorded a 21% rise
in net profit, growing from RM387 million in FY2023 to RM467
million in FY2024. This growth was driven by strategic commercial
initiatives, including targeted marketing campaigns and the
successful launch of innovation products that resonated well with
consumers.
[MDA_P003]
At the same time, effective cost management allowed
HEINEKEN Malaysia to enhance operational efficiency and reduce
expenses. A strong rebound in consumer confidence also played
a key role, as spending patterns returned to pre-pandemic levels
with increased demand for premium and good quality beverages. In addition, the Group benefited from the recognition of deferred
tax income relating to reinvestment allowance, resulting in a
lower effective tax rate, which further supported net profit growth. Earnings per share (EPS) rose from RM1.28 to RM1.55, reflecting
the Group's strong financial performance. This increase in EPS is
a positive indicator for shareholders, demonstrating the Group's
ability to generate higher profits per share. However, Net Cash
from Operating Activities declined by 12% to RM513 million,
primarily due to working capital movements, reflecting the
normalisation of FY2023’s one-off positive impact from the
factoring arrangement, which had significantly improved capital
efficiency. This created a high base for comparison in FY2024. Net Assets for FY2024 were recorded at RM539 million, an
increase of 18% compared to FY2023.
[MDA_P004]
This growth is mainly due
to improved business performance during the year. The increase
in Net Assets signifies a stronger balance sheet and enhanced
financial stability, which is beneficial for long-term growth. Capital Expenditure for FY2024 was approximately RM90 million,
a decrease of 37% compared to the previous year. This reduction
is primarily due to lower spending following the completion of the
brewery upgrade in 2023. The decrease in capital expenditure
suggests that the Group was focused on optimising its existing
assets and improving operational efficiency rather than pursuing
new investment in FY2024. The Group paid a total of RM1.45 billion in Excise, Customs
Duties and Sales Tax for the year, representing 52% of the Group's
revenue. This significant contribution to Government revenues
underscores the Group's role as a major taxpayer. Additionally, the
Group incurred RM118 million in income taxes, translating into
an effective tax rate of 20%. This lower effective tax rate is due to
the recognition of deferred tax income relating to reinvestment
allowance, which highlights the Company's strategic tax planning
and utilisation of available tax incentives.
[MDA_P007]
This creative approach kept Heineken® part of the festivities
while in compliance with local law. The creative activation
earned multiple accolades, including Bronze for the Cannes Lion
International Festival of Creativity and Kancil Awards. We continued to innovate with Heineken® Refresh – a unique music
discovery platform enhancing social experiences. The “Refresh
Your Music, Refresh Your Nights,” initiative encourages fans to
explore new sounds and discover fresh tracks. The Heineken® Fresh
List on Spotify offers an exhilarating digital experience, powered
by the Heineken® Refreshing Algorithm, which introduced tracks
outside common preferences. We successfully brought together
18,000 fans at the finale of Heineken® Refresh event to discover
new music together for an unforgettable experience. Recognising the surge in online gaming, especially simulator
racing, we introduced Heineken® Player 0.0, an innovative mobile
simulator racing competition promoting responsible consumption
through engaging digital experiences. This connected with
digitally savvy audiences by blending the excitement of gaming
with our no alcohol offering – Heineken® 0.0.
