document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 33, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P005]
Flour Milling
Animal Feed Milling
Navigating the Pandemic
FFM Group’s increased revenue for 2021 was due to the higher
selling prices and sales volume in both Indonesia and Vietnam. The
rise in raw materials cost contributed to the increase in selling price
of flour; a portion of the cost increase being passed to customers. The increase in wheat prices and freight charges has intensified
market competition, and the price volatility had driven up the
cost of products. However, we leveraged on our Group’s extensive
experience in grains procurement, supply chain management and
technical competency to mitigate the adverse impact of the wheat
price volatility and supply chain disruption. FFM’s flour milling capacity has increased with the completion of
its new 500 MT/day wheat flour mill constructed by 51%-owned
VFM-Wilmar Flour Mills Co Ltd at its existing factory in Quang
Ninh Province, in northern Vietnam at an estimated cost of
USD20 million. Looking ahead, the domestic market growth looks more positive
after the opening of all economic sectors.
[MDA_P006]
However, we expect
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict to add more uncertainty and
volatility to the commodity market and cause greater disruption
to the global supply chain. This will continue to be a challenging
year. Notwithstanding the volatility of raw material prices and other
rising costs, we do not pass all cost increases to customers. The Animal Feed Milling’s business environment is uncertain due to market segment contraction as many high-volume customers switched
to home mixing or toll milling to cut costs. Previously, independent farmers had also abandoned the traditional farming model and opted
for an integrated farming scheme, which has an impact on independent feed millers.
[MDA_P008]
To mitigate these adverse effects, the Flour Milling Division had rolled out several strategies such as focusing on the speed of market
access and upholding our service standards to stay competitive. In the Animal Feed Milling Division, we will continue the cost reduction
initiatives and support long-standing customers. The Livestock Farming Division looks to improve sales by widening the customer base
and earlier depopulation of non-profitable flocks. Livestock Farming
The COVID-19 pandemic affected the Livestock Farming Division,
due to lower consumer spending, leading to increasing unsold day-
old-chicks (“DOC”). There was also the risk of a shrinking DOC
market caused by independent farmers facing losses and halting or
reducing their DOC intake. Additionally, an increased risk of disease
outbreaks in poultry farms also affected this Division. The Division implemented several measures to deal with industry
challenges, such as improving the quality of DOC and eggs,
implementing more competitive pricing and improving infectious
disease surveillance and preventive vaccination programmes. Production was also adjusted according to market demand to
optimise cost.
[MDA_P011]
The supply chain disruptions and rising raw material prices have
driven up distribution costs and put pressure on margins. The
currency volatility and higher wages also contributed to margin
compression in this segment. FMSB will continue to strengthen the positioning of its brands
and launch new products to sustain its long-term growth whilst
actively pursuing new agencies to grow revenue. This segment will
continue to work with its business partners to develop products for
the foodservice sector. The consumer goods sector expects the business environment to
remain challenging amidst the ongoing pandemic. However, we are
able to leverage on our strong distribution network, established
brands and varied in-house products to provide a solid base for
long term business sustainability. TIB generated slightly higher revenue than the previous year. Although the bread market for FY2021 was relatively stable, the
entry of prominent new players introduced keen competition in the
industrial baking scene.
[MDA_P012]
The year 2021 saw the introduction of several new products and
services such as the Massimo Tamper-Evident bread bag packaging,
Peanut Butter roll, Seeded Multigrain with Barley loaf, Burrosa
Butter, Burrosa Red Velvet and Burrosa Tiramisu. With new players in the market, we will have to increase our
efficiency, control our costs, introduce more unique products, and
aggressively expand distribution points and availability to maintain
and grow our market share. In 2021, FFM Further Processing Sdn Bhd (“FFP”) started a partnership to produce food items under their in-house brands. This initiative
aims to optimise capacity utilisation of the factory, reduce operational expenditures per unit and increase resource utilisation efficiency. As
a result, a 23% higher volume was achieved over 2020. Volatile raw materials cost and rising transportation cost resulted in sharp increases of product costs with limited room to price-in the cost
increase to customers. This Division also encountered labour shortages due to the challenges in recruitment and restrictions on hiring of
foreign workers. We have broadened the supply base to acquire raw materials at more competitive prices.
