document_id: MDA_5202_MSM_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 70, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MSM
AT A GLANCE
A PERSPECTIVE FROM
OUR LEADERSHIP
OUR APPROACH TO
VALUE CREATION
OUR GROUP
BUSINESS REVIEW
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
Sustainable Excellence Through Integration
GROUP FINANCIAL
REVIEW
DR MAZATUL 'AINI SHAHAR
ABDUL MALEK SHAHAR, FCA
Chief Financial Officer
OVERVIEW OF GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
MSM Group has made considerable progress in revitalising the company,
as demonstrated by the notable enhancement in performance despite
narrowed losses throughout the fiscal year 2023 compared to the
preceding year. While the journey has not been without its challenges,
including heightened input costs, currency fluctuations, and regulatory
constraints in Malaysia, the Group has successfully managed to navigate
these hurdles. Despite facing pressures on profit margins and overall financial stability
due to the aforementioned factors, strategic initiatives and improvements
in production processes have allowed us to overcome these obstacles and
chart a path towards a more promising financial future. Regarding the regulatory price ceiling in the Wholesale segment,
we acknowledge the government’s acknowledgment of the systemic
anomaly affecting packed sugar prices in Malaysia.
[MDA_P002]
The receipt of the
Joint Sugar Industry incentive in the final quarter of the fiscal year marks
a significant milestone in our journey. After enduring eight consecutive
quarters of losses, transitioning to profitability in the final quarter of
FY2023 signifies a turning point for the Group. This positive outcome is attributed to the benefits realised from various
initiatives undertaken throughout the year, which include:
Cost Optimisation Initiatives
The company has undertaken a series of cost optimisation efforts
designed to counteract the adverse effects of elevated input
expenses. Through the refinement of production processes and
the enhancement of operational efficiency, the company has
achieved a reduction in refining costs. These advancements
have been pivotal in bolstering the company's overall margin,
notwithstanding the challenging market conditions. Improved Margins
The execution of production enhancements has had a beneficial
impact on the company’s margins. By rationalising operations
and maximising resource efficiency, the company has managed
to produce refined sugar at a reduced cost, thereby elevating
its profitability.
[MDA_P003]
The enhancement in margins acts as a protective
buffer against the constraints imposed by the regulatory price
ceilings on sugar sales. Market Dynamics
In the context of high commodity prices and regulatory price
ceilings on sugar sales, the company has sustained its market
presence by leveraging cost efficiency and strategic pricing
mechanisms. Although the price ceiling constrains the company's
capacity to adjust prices within the Wholesale segment, the
emphasis on cost containment ensures competitive advantage
and margin preservation. Financial Stability
Confronted with the dual challenges of rising input costs and
regulatory price ceilings, the company has showcased financial
resilience by demonstrating flexibility and innovation. The
investment in production enhancements and cost-reduction
initiatives is steering the company back towards profitability and
solidifying its financial standing. Long-term Sustainability
The company's dedication to production enhancements not only
bolsters its immediate financial outcomes but also establishes
a basis for enduring sustainability.
[MDA_P004]
Through persistent efforts
to refine operational efficiencies and diminish expenses, the
company upholds its resilience amidst market volatilities and
regulatory limitations. In summary, despite encountering obstacles, the company's
commitment to executing production optimisation and minimising
refining costs has played a pivotal role in elevating its financial
performance. By prioritising operational efficiency, margin
enhancement, and sustainable growth strategies, the company
is strategically positioned to tackle the intricacies of the sugar
industry and propel forward its future expansion.
[MDA_P006]
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue
For the financial year under review, the Group’s revenue grew by 20% from
RM2.57 billion in FY2022 to RM3.09 billion as sales volume picked up along
with market recovery. The growth in revenue reflected the successful price
management strategies implemented since the previous year, also contributed
by our new premium Gula Super product which was well received by the
market since its launch in mid-2023. The domestic market continues to be an important segment for our revenue
growth. Revenue from Domestic sales grew 18% from the year before; closing
at RM2.4 billion in FY2023; contributing 79% of the Group’s total revenue. Export revenue also grew steadily, reaching RM637 million in FY2023, up by
20% from the prior year. Profitability
On the back of higher revenue, the Group’s profitability improved significantly
with a healthy Gross Profit of RM79 million, up from a gross loss of
RM46 million in FY2022. Profit from operations also rose to RM12 million
from a loss from operations of RM151 million a year ago. Closing the year, the
Group recorded a loss before tax (LBT) of RM28 million from RM179 million in
the previous year.
