document_id: MDA_3662_MFLOUR_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 25
Similarly, in aquaculture, we are committed to continuous innovation and refi nement of our products to
enhance the quality of our aqua feeds and better meet client specifi cations. Financial Performance Highlights
During the fi nancial year ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), MFM delivered a commendable performance,
with the Flour and Grain Trading (“FGT”) segment in Malaysia and Vietnam being the key driver of our strong
fi nancial results. The FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam saw profi t after tax grow by 82.5% to RM126.1 million in FY2024
from RM69.1 million previously, while maintaining a stable revenue base of RM3.1 billion. The signifi cant
bottom-line growth was driven by higher sales volume and stable raw material prices. Conversely, 2024 proved to be a challenging year for the poultry segment, which was impacted by consumer
boycotts arising from the geopolitical confl ict in the Middle East. Additionally, the removal of subsidies and
higher reversal of deferred tax assets further weakened the segment’s performance.
[MDA_P003]
The Group’s PI segment, through the 51% equity stake in DTSB and its subsidiaries, ended FY2024
with a PAT of RM3.1 million, 93.9% lower than RM50.7 million in the previous year. The lower profi t was
achieved on a fl at revenue of RM1.1 billion. Likewise, the share of profi t also declined to RM1.6 million from
RM25.9 million in the prior year. Meanwhile, the Group’s 30% joint venture in Indonesia, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”), continued
to face headwinds due to heightened market competition in the country, coupled with a drop in export sales
volume. However, BFMI signifi cantly reduced its loss after tax to RM30.0 million from RM66.5 million in the
prior year, as a result of improved margins and higher sales volume of processed wheat. Revenue remained
largely the same at RM2.3 billion. At the Group level, the strong performance of the FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam more than compensated
for the weaker results from the PI segment and the underperformance of Indonesia’s operations. In addition,
the Group recognised a one-off impairment loss of RM42.1 million in FY2024, premised on BFMI incurring
losses for three consecutive years.
[MDA_P005]
As at the end of FY2024, our inventories reduced to RM519.8 million, compared to RM523.9 million as at
31 December 2023, in tandem with the reduced prices of raw materials of wheat and corn.
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Operations Highlights
Flour and Grain Trading Segment
In 2024, global markets for key food commodities, including wheat, remained relatively stable. Favorable
weather conditions in some regions helped offset uncertainties arising from the existing geopolitical confl icts,
ensuring a steady supply. While commodity prices experienced fl uctuations, they generally trended toward
moderation, alleviating cost pressures across the supply chain. Against this backdrop, demand for fl our remained robust, particularly in Malaysia and Vietnam. In Malaysia,
steady consumption from food manufacturers and households provided a solid foundation for growth. Meanwhile, Vietnam’s expanding bakery and instant noodle industries drive higher fl our consumption,
refl ecting shifting consumer preferences. Due to stable commodity prices and stronger consumer demand, the FGT segment in Malaysia and Vietnam
recorded healthy growth. Sales tonnage in Malaysia increased by 5.1% year-on-year in FY2024, while Vietnam
operations saw an 18.4% rise in quantity sold.
[MDA_P007]
Consequently, our plants in Malaysia and Vietnam operated at
70.6% and 85.8% of the total production capacity, respectively, during the year. The strong operational performance translated into improved fi nancial results. The fl our operations in Malaysia
and Vietnam recorded a higher profi t after tax of RM119.3 million, up from RM65.7 million in the previous year,
on a steady revenue base of RM2.1 billion. At the same time, the grain trading business also recorded a higher profi t after tax of RM6.8 million in FY2024
on a revenue of RM965.1 million, up from a net profi t of RM3.4 million in the previous year. In Indonesia, our joint venture company, BFMI, continued to face intense competition and weaker export
sales. However, performance improved, with a loss after tax narrowing to RM30.0 million during the year as
compared to RM66.5 million previously despite ongoing challenges. Including trading products of processed
wheat, sales tonnage overall increased by 20.3% during the year. Amidst the uncertain environment, MFM will continue prioritising cost effi ciency in our fl our milling operations
by optimising fl our extraction and blending processes.
[MDA_P008]
Simultaneously, we will maintain a steady supply of
raw materials and price our end products to align with market needs. Poultry Integration Segment
Our PI business in FY2024 was affected by the boycott of Western quick service restaurant (“QSR”) chains
following the Middle East geopolitical confl ict, which led to lower demand and impacted sales. Despite the challenging environment, we continued to increase our broiler production by 6.2% year-on-year
to more than 50 million birds, mainly attributed to our own farms and contract farms. The achievement was
largely due to our farming operations using best farming practices and deploying technology that enables
high yield from the farms. However, throughout the year under review, demand for product segments for the fast food services channel
was lower than in FY2023, as a result of the boycott. In response, we strategically mitigated the slowdown and
pivoted our market attention to selling whole birds to food retail channels, which helped optimise utilisation
in our PI operations.
