document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 27, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P005]
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Driving The Nation’s Sustainable Dairy Farming
DLMI achieved a milestone in April 2021 when we
established a strategic public-private partnership by signing
a Memorandum of Collaboration with the Department of
Veterinary Services (DVS) to boost our nation’s supply of
quality local fresh milk and to achieve a fully sustainable
milk supply for the future. The collaboration allows DLMI
to partner the Government, especially the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry to support the growth of the
local dairy industry. This is in line with the Government’s goal
to achieve 100 percent Self-Sufficiency of local fresh milk by
2025 as part of the National Dairy Industry Development
Programme. Since 2011, our Dairy Development Programme
(DDP) has helped produce 37.9 million litres of milk while our
Farmer2Farmer (F2F) Programme has benefitted more than
536 farmers. In 2021, we introduced a new digital F2F format
that revolved around video blogs and was aptly named F2F
Vlogs. Via this initiative, a total of 70 local dairy farmers
were trained virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic.
[MDA_P009]
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Through the course of 2021, we had carried out various
initiatives in ensuring our People stayed connected through
strong adoption of CARE (C-Connected; A-Appreciated;
R-Responsive; E-Energised) principles, wellness initiatives
to remain engaged and energised, and enabled a forward,
flexible way of working through Agile Transformation. Despite all external challenges, we continue to invest in our
People, and will continue doing so for years to come. Capability Building
We remain committed and passionate about talent
management and development as our employees are drivers
of sustainable success. Hence, various initiatives have been
deployed to enhance capability building:
Winning Through Volatility – Body.Mind.Soul (BMS)
The current volatile business landscape represents a challenge
to employees where mental, spiritual and physical energies
are shifting. This amplified the relevance of personal energy
management - that an Engaged, Enabled, and Energised
workforce is key in motivating our business forward.
[MDA_P010]
In 2021, many wellness-focused initiatives were deployed via
our Employee Engagement model, Body.Mind.Soul (BMS),
which included:
Local employee participation in
FrieslandCampina Academy programmes
(Nourishing Leadership, Future Leader) – in
developing the next class of high potential
leaders
Driving Coaching Culture via the Solution
Focused Coaching programme (74 pax
which accounts for 75% of our Business
Leadership Team + selected Talent across
DLMI involving up to 3,552 man-hour
spent)
Enterprise Agile Transformation:
Introducing the Agile fundamentals; Agile
Coaching (Total 106 pax of employees has
went through Agile Fundamental training;
768 of Agile coaching hours)
Employee Growth and Development:
10,259 training man-hours from 81 training
programmes completed by our employees
throughout the year in 2021, this translate
to average of 12.28 hours per employee in
DLMI.
[MDA_P023]
During
the COVID-19 pandemic DLMI has been able to continue to
drive its purpose of Nourishing the Malaysian people. Profit performance details are broken down in profit
resulting from sales of products sourced from the existing
manufacturing facilities (profit from existing operations) and
reported profit including the exceptional results in relation
to the construction of the future manufacturing expansion
in Bandar Baru Enstek. Profit before tax from existing operations is improving
to RM142.8 million at index 141 versus previous year on
the back of a strong focus to improve long-term business
profitability. Increasing input cost as a result of increasing
global dairy raw materials, supply chain disruptions, one-
off COVID cost are more than offset by topline growth,
focus on Revenue Growth Management activities (e.g. mix
management of channel and portfolio) and improvement
of the Return on Investment of commercial activities. This
result is a testament to DLMI’s focus to Win Profitably
supported by an agile mindset and relying on usage of data
in all our decision making.
[MDA_P024]
During the year 2021, prices of global dairy raw materials
have been escalating resulting from continued strong global
demand for milk as an essential good, lower production of
milk in large milk producing countries and continued supply
chain disruptions leading to delays of incoming goods.
[MDA_P025]
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Cashflow from operating
activities
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Reported profit in 2021 DLMI is
exceptionally high resulting from the
completion of the sales of the land
underlying the manufacturing facilities
in Petaling Jaya. This income is partially
offset by the start of accelerated
depreciation of existing assets that will
not be transitioned to the new site in
Bandar Baru Enstek. Reported profit
before tax is RM284.5 million at index
292 versus previous year. Cashflow from operating activities was
at negative RM15 million inclusive of
a prepayment to a related company
amounting to RM126 million. When
excluding the prepayment cashflow
from operating activities is at RM111
million which is a decrease of RM33
million versus 2020 mainly resulting
from higher input cost and requirements
to build inventory to weather the global
supply chain challenges.
