document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 8, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Profit After
Tax (PAT)
(RM'000)
RM43,449
Revenue
(RM'000)
RM557,116
Industry Overview
Three-A Resources Berhad ("3A" or "the
Group") continues to strengthen its position
as a manufacturer of high-quality food and
beverage ingredients. In line with its strategic
objectives, the Group remains committed to
enhancing operational efficiencies, optimising
its supply chain, and managing costs
effectively to reinforce its market position. For FY2024, 3A has navigated an evolving
industry landscape while maintaining a
strategic focus on sustainable growth. The Group's performance in FY2024 was
shaped by macroeconomic conditions,
including geopolitical risks and inflationary
pressures that influenced raw material
costs. However, with inflation stabilising
at 1.8% and cost pressures moderating,
3A effectively managed its input costs. The
Malaysian economy recorded a 5% growth
in the fourth quarter of 2024, supported
by ongoing structural reforms. Stronger
household spending supported by a robust
labour market and policy measures further
drove demand for ingredient solutions.
[MDA_P002]
Additionally, movements in the ringgit,
influenced by external developments,
remained a key factor in sourcing imported
raw materials. Nevertheless, Malaysia’s
favourable macroeconomic outlook is
expected to provide a more stable business
environment, allowing 3A to reinforce its
competitive positioning and providing
opportunities for growth in the coming year. Business
and
Operational
Performance
Performance Overview
In FY2024, the Group recorded a 7.7%
decline in revenue, amounting to RM46.7
million compared to FY2023, primarily
due to lower sales volume. While liquidity
ratios, such as the current and quick ratios,
declined slightly, cash and bank balances
improved significantly. Looking ahead, softer
consumer demand, evolving market trends,
and increasing competition are expected
to impact the Group’s operations, financial
performance, and liquidity. Earnings
Net profit for FY2024 decreased by 3.8%,
amounting to RM1.7 million as compared to
FY2023. This decline was primarily driven by
reduced revenue due to lower sales volumes.
[MDA_P003]
However, the impact was partially offset by a
more favourable product sales mix, reduced
volatility in raw material costs, and enhanced
cost control measures, which contributed to
a more stable financial performance despite
the challenges. Exports
Singapore remained the Group's top export
market in FY2024, contributing 10.7% to
total revenue. However, export revenue
experienced a decline of approximately
RM16.3 million compared to FY2023. This
decrease was mainly driven by reduced sales
volumes, resulting from weaker industry
demand. As global markets faced challenges,
lower quantities of products sold contributed
significantly to the overall drop in export
revenue for the year. Assets and Liabilities
In FY2024, the Group saw a 5.9% increase
in total assets, reaching RM535.3 million,
driven largely by higher inventory levels and
cash balances. This was partially offset by
[MDA_P004]
www.three-a.com.my
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
Annual Report 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
“
 In response to
inflationary
pressures and geopolitical
issues, which could affect
the prices of raw materials
like tapioca, corn starch,
sugar, and soybean,
the Group will continue
to enhance its product
sales mix, operational
efficiency, and cost controls. Additionally, the Group will
strengthen its marketing
strategies and apply risk
management processes
to ensure it remains
resilient. ”
a decline in trade receivables, in line with
lower revenue. Similarly, total liabilities
rose by 4.2% to RM57.4 million, primarily
due to higher trade payables linked to the
increased inventory, although this was
partially mitigated by repayments of term
loans. Shareholders’ equity grew by 6.1%
to RM477.9 million, reflecting the profit
generated for FY2024, despite interim
dividend payouts and share buybacks. Earnings per share stood at 8.89 sen, with
a net asset per share of 97.7 sen. Production
The Group continued its long-term operational
efficiency initiatives in FY2024.
[MDA_P006]
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
Annual Report 2024
About Us
LEADERSHIP
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL Report
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY
listening to customer needs, providing
tailored solutions, and continually seeking
improvements to achieve marketing goals. To support these efforts, the Micro Lab,
Physical and Chemical Lab were relocated
and expanded, becoming fully operational
in December 2024. These new facilities
enabled the Group to better meet customer
expectations by providing enhanced support
and improving service capabilities. These
developments form part of the Group’s
strategy to deliver value while fostering
stronger customer relationships, ultimately
driving long-term business growth. Key Business Opportunities and Risks
Sustainability and ESG-related matters
presented significant business opportunities,
as strong performance in these areas could
attract companies that prioritise such
initiatives. However, the Group also faced
risks, including slower economic growth
in key markets and increased competition
from both local and international products.
