document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 24, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
obesity and stunting, especially amongst
children. Beyond
providing
innovative
products to better suit the dietary needs of
Malaysians, DLMI has raised the awareness of
the dual burden issues via multiple platforms
leveraging on platforms such as the World Milk
Day, online programmes. This is in addition to
our periodic engagements with the Ministry of
Health to encourage developments of policies
that include milk products into Government
driven programmes to ensure a healthy
generation of Malaysians in the future. Performance
The year 2020 began with great plans and
ambitions. However, the COVID-19 pandemic
changed the course of the year’s plans. As
an organisation that is rooted in providing
Nutrition and Nourishing Malaysians as our
core purpose, we stood strong in facing this
challenge and stood firm in our commercial
strategy. In fact, we stayed agile in our
approach to adapt to the new normal and
focused on our core priorities, our commercial
performance and emerged strong with overall
volume increase of +7% vs 2019 as a total
company. Zooming into our Consumer Dairy portfolio,
we are happy to share that we hit all our
commercial KPIs for 2020!
[MDA_P004]
Purpose: activation of our purpose
in unprecedented times
In line with DLMI’s purpose to Nourish our
nation from Grass to Glass, the business
successfully overcame multiple challenges
throughout 2020, coming about the impact
of COVID-19 and the public health measures
imposed by the Government in the form of the
Movement Control Order (MCO). DLMI, under the essential sector category
successfully obtained the approval from the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry’s
to operate during the MCO period and supported
its ecosystem to obtain similar approval. This enabled the business to protect the
livelihoods and jobs of employees throughout
our ecosystem (i.e. supply chain and logistics)
and ensured continuous production of our
nutritious milk products and supply to the
market. During this uncertain period DLMI
worked very closely with its trade partners to
ensure availability of our nourishing products,
so that we could keep the Malaysians nourished
– our single-minded purpose.
[MDA_P010]
Learn more about our sustainability roadmap below:
Manifesto
to
Drive goodness of
milk education for a
healthy nation
To provide healthy
and sustainable
nutrition to all people,
at all ages, now and in
the future
&
To reduce hunger
in the world and
promote good health
and well-being
To drive dairy farming
which focuses
on sustainability
for animals and
ecosystem while
minimising carbon
footprint
To have a production
process that reduces
water and energy
consumption, circular
and CO2 neutral
Deliver reduction
targets at current and
new plant
Drive sustainable
actions at farm level
including production
NUTRITION
(Glass)
FARM
(Grass)
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
(Grass to Glass)
POST
CONSUMPTION
(Glass)
To have our entire
packaging portfolio
reusable, recyclable
or both by 2025
Promote recycling
via education and
recyclable and
circular packaging
DLMI has further improved on the water- and energy consumption of our operations by investing and applying better
technology, improvement in monitoring systems and creating more awareness with employees to prevent unnecessary
spillage.
[MDA_P011]
In 2020, DLMI had organised the Ramadan Healthy
Charity called (“Jariah Susu”) to provide much
needed nutrition to the underprivileged community
by partnering non-governmental and charitable
organisations. Through this initiative, we partnered
Yayasan Basmi Kemiskinan (which looks after
underprivileged (B40) families both covered and
uncovered by the Welfare Department or ZAKAT in
Selangor), Yayasan Salam Malaysia (which covers
underprivileged (B40) families in the Chow Kit area),
and Masjid Tun Abdul Aziz (which covers the Petaling
Jaya area – underprivileged families, frontliners,
orphanages, old folks home) to help those impacted
by the lockdown. Despite the COVID-19 outbreak, DLMI continues to
uphold our license to operate as a Halal-certified
organisation, with smooth application processes to
ensure timely route to market for our halal dairy
products. We adapted to new Halal certification
procedures and policy norms, specified by JAKIM during
the first phase of the MCO. In addition, DLMI continued
sustaining our position on the Fast Track List and we
remained fully committed towards the Malaysian Halal
certification conditions and requirements.
[MDA_P012]
DLMI has
continued to develop, practice, and maintain the Halal
Assurance System effectively over the years. DLMI will continue to partner various Halal authorities
and agencies to facilitate the development of our
Halal system and standards in preparation for the new
facility at Bandar Enstek (Techpark@Enstek), Negeri
Sembilan. We remained committed to reinforcing our
role as a Halal dairy producer since 1963 as well as
a JAKIM White List holder since 2017 – to uphold the
standards of Halal and in preserving our customer’s
confidence in DLMI products. Halal
