document_id: MDA_8303_LOTUS_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P004]
Despite with the lower performance in sales, as
compared with prior financial year, there was an
operating loss suffered and then LKFM’s new
management had turned around the loss and generated
profit for the current financial year. The Group’s long-term assets had recorded an increase
of 61.48% to RM23.446 million (FYE 2019: RM14.519
million). This was mainly due to the adoption of MFRS
16 Leases during the financial year. The Group’s inventories level for current FYE 2020 had
decreased by 13.57% to RM8.642 million (FYE 2019:
RM9.998 million), where LKFM is trying to maintain a
lower inventory level to minimise the holding cost and
carrying cost. By doing so, it can also reduce the risk of
slow-moving stock. Trade receivables are maintaining as RM6.512 million
(FYE 2019: RM6.317 million) which is in line with
current financial year sales. In short, the sales team is
actively approaching to customers for collection. Other
receivables have increased to RM5.280 million which is
159.33% (FYE 2019: RM2.036 million). The increase is
mainly due to the advances received from the customers
to purchase wheat and starch products.
[MDA_P006]
ANTICIPATED BUSINESS RISKS
The business risks faced by the Group basically include
market competitions, volatility of imported raw material
prices,
movements
of
currency
exchange
rates,
performance of user industries and changes in economic,
political and regulatory conditions. a)
Market competitions
The flour milling sector remains competitive
among the flour milling operators locally as well as
imported wheat flour and starch. The Group will
continue to develop new market strategy to
capture new market, particularly on less well-
served segments, improve its distribution channels
as well as product mix and quality to meet a wider
range of customers’ needs and requirements.
[MDA_P008]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
ANTICIPATED BUSINESS RISKS (cont’d)
b)
Volatility of raw material prices
Volatility of prices on imported raw materials
such as wheat and tapioca remain the key
challenges. Both wheat and tapioca are globally
traded commodities, and as a result, their prices
may fluctuate from time to time. The price of
wheat and tapioca are influenced by global
macroeconomic factors including, among others,
supply and demand of wheat and tapioca, as
well as stock levels.
As the cost of these raw materials constitute a
major part of wheat flour and tapioca starch cost,
managing these costs remain the key challenge.
Any increase in the prices of these imported raw
materials, if unable to pass on to customers on
time,
may
adversely
affect
the
financial
performance of the Group.
Stability of imported raw material prices remain a
key challenge for all the industry players. This is
an inherent risk faced by all the industry players.
[MDA_P009]
The Group has taken proactive measures to
mitigate the unexpected interruption of the
supply of these imported raw materials as well
as their prices by increasing inventory to a
reasonable level when prices are relatively low. c)
Volatility of currency exchange rates
As LKFM’s main raw materials such as wheat
and tapioca are fully imported from oversea
markets and are traded in US currency. Fluctuations in US/RM rates will have great
impact on its raw material costs and hence its
financial performance. However, during the
current financial year, the Group has purchased
the aforesaid raw materials locally from its
business collaboration partner, LOTUS. Hence,
the aforesaid currency risk is protected. d)
Dependency on performance of user
industries
Flour is mainly used in food manufacturing
industries and food services operations. Any
adverse performance in user industries would
affect the demand for these products and hence,
the financial performance of the Group. We will
continue to take prudent approach to manage
this risk. However, this is an inherent risk in the
wheat flour milling industry.
[MDA_P012]
OUTLOOK OF INDUSRTY
The operating environment is expected to remain highly
competitive and we anticipate intensifying pressures on
margins as consumers’ living costs rise. Nevertheless,
the Group will persevere in elevating operational
efficiency and focus on exploring various marketing
strategies
to
improve
the
Group’s
revenue
and
profitability.
We always uphold our mantra of offering excellent
customer service, with great prices as our inherent
objective. Regardless of the economic weather, the
benchmark for best value is set so that our customers
can get the best possible deals with no compromise in
quality and services.
