document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2021
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 98, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion
& Analysis
6 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Our Financial Performance
Continuing our trend of steady year-on-year growth, Group-wide revenue rose by 6.5% in FY2021. However, our net profit
decreased by 30.5% mainly due to weaker butter ratio during the year and one-off gain on the disposal of an associate
company in FY2020. Read more about our financial performance within the Financial Statements section of this report.
Read more: Financial Performance Review, page 40
Our Non-Financial Performance
In FY2021, we increased our annual cocoa grinding capacity by 20,000MT to a total of 277,000MT across our worldwide
production facilities. We were also crowned the Company of the Year Award in food manufacturing and were recognised
for our exemplary community care initiatives at the Sustainability and CSR Malaysia Awards.
RM3,923.3
million
14.86
sen
Revenue
Earnings
per share
RM196.8
million
RM1,342.3
million
Profit
before tax
Shareholders’
equity
RM154.8
million
0.92
times
Net profit
Net
gearing ratio
Snapshot of FY2021:
Financial and Non-Financial Performance Highlights
[MDA_P007]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 9
Our Vision, Mission, Values & Promises
our Vision
To be the world’s most preferred and
leading cocoa partner. our Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to deliver quality cocoa and chocolates while offering
utmost flexibility and attention. Through forming strong alliances with local partners,
we are dedicated to serving our customers worldwide and growing together with them
in long-term partnerships. our VALUES
Grit
Ambition
Sincerity
our Promises
Full Product Range
Providing an extensive product
range from cocoa powder, liquor,
cake and butter to liquid and solid
chocolates in various shapes, sizes
and packaging options. Flexibility and Excellence in
Customer Service
Fulfilling customer orders as
our top priority; seeking to
establish long-term meaningful
relationships. Product Quality and Safety
Ensuring excellent throughput
at our production facilities
and compliance with all safety
standards. Technical Support and
Innovation
Crafting tailor-made recipes and
developing new products with our
experienced R&D team.
[MDA_P010]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 11
Corporate Principal Activities, Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and Market Positioning
Corporate Principal Activities
Our business is principally involved in the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients including cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come in
dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid form. Market Environment
FY2021 presented a challenging year for the Group,
as disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and
geopolitical tensions have led to uncertainty, global
inflation and supply chain disruptions. Even so, market demand during FY2021 was better than
FY2020 as economies gradually recovered from the impact
of COVID-19. Alongside the rapid rollout of COVID-19
vaccines in most countries and travel restrictions that are
gradually being lifted, there has been a surge in demand
for chocolate in the market in the United States1, and the
industry is adopting a cautiously optimistic outlook over
the medium-to-long-term.
[MDA_P011]
Nevertheless, our expansion plans represent both a risk and
an opportunity. While we stand to benefit from reduced
supply chain risks, differences in market conditions, social
and cultural practices, and business processes will pose
challenges that will require coordinated and collective
effort to overcome. Competitive Landscape
Even with the recent expansion activities, as the world’s
fourth largest cocoa grinding company, we continue to
face stiff competition from major international companies
that boast wider market reach, stronger influence
and greater financial resources. Furthermore, these
international companies usually operate end-to-end,
vertically integrated supply chains, thereby reducing their
exposure to risks derived from logistical challenges and
weakened market demand. In addressing this issue, our new cocoa processing facility in
Ivory Coast, expected to commence production activities
in mid-2022, will have a transformative effect.
[MDA_P012]
It will enable
us to source cocoa beans directly from origin, which will
not only provide us a shorter bean-to-ingredients cycle
compared to our other facilities, but also give us better
control over the scheduling and supply reliability of quality
beans. This will mitigate supply chain risks and empower
greater control over the scheduling of our production and
shipping activities. Ultimately, by enabling the direct supply of cocoa
ingredients to our operations in Germany and the United
Kingdom, our facility in Ivory Coast will drive increased cost
efficiencies, giving us increased leeway to capture market
share and achieve long-term growth in these important
markets and beyond. Market Positioning
We are optimistic that the acquisitions and expansion we
have made in the past few years stand us in good stead to
strengthen our presence as a key multinational player in
the global chocolate supply chain. Firstly, through our new cocoa processing facility in Ivory
Coast, we will benefit from direct access to raw materials in
the world’s largest cocoa bean producing country.
