document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2022
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 23, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
As we reflected on the unparalleled pace
of change from the domino impact of
COVID-19, companies need to evolve to
overcome challenges in order to achieve
their business objectives and to shape a
better world for all. 3A Group continues to
forge ahead on production efficiency and
cost management with a focused mission
of fulfilling the pent-up demand of our
value chain partners and customers. The
disruptions brought about by COVID-19
brought realisation that our team need to
focus on plant modernisation and automation
and more importantly align the operations
and people in the quest of protecting the
planet. According to Malaysia’s Economy Report
2022/2023 released by Bank Negara
Malaysia in February 2023, Malaysia’s
domestic economy is seen to be driven by
steady domestic demand, a vibrant service
sector, implementation of new and ongoing
high-multiplier infrastructure projects, and
sustained exports.
[MDA_P003]
Given the price escalation trend as well
as keen competition, food ingredient
manufacturers have a lot more role to play. When partnering with food manufacturers
and providers, 3A Group leverages on our
own R&D to produce tailor-made products
for specific customers. This has paved the
way for the expansion of 3A’s customer
base and strengthening earnings in recent
years. Backed by a strong local market
presence, our Group is confident of our ability
to support the growth of the region, with our
solid manufacturing capabilities and a proven
reputation for product quality. The Group is
firm on its journey to unlock the potential
of new customers through a customised
Profit Before Tax
(PBT)
RM47.8
million
Profit After Tax
(PAT)
RM35.1
million
[MDA_P005]
The Group recorded close to 28%
increase in revenue of RM658.702
million in FY2022 as compared to
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
RM515.615 million in FY2021. This
is the highest revenue achieved thus
far in 3A Group’s history, contributed
predominantly by the higher Average
Selling Prices (ASP) and increase in
quantities of products sold across
the board. Three (3) products namely
Caramel, Maltodextrin and Glucose
represented more than 80% of the
Group’s sales for FY2022. Total
Sales and Domestic Sales for the
year increased by 28% and 30%
respectively. Growth in domestic
and export sales was largely driven
by higher ASP, higher volumes sold
and across all products. (II) EXPORTS
[MDA_P007]
During FY 2022, exports of our products
remained stable with an overall increase
of 25% mainly due to the following:
[MDA_P010]
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
(III) EARNINGS
Despite the record high revenue
achieved, profit for the Group
have been impacted by higher raw
material costs, energy costs, labour,
transportation and other related
expenses in FY2022. The Group
profit before tax and profit after
tax had reduced to RM47.8 million
and RM35.1 million respectively in
FY2022 as compared with RM62.5
million and RM46.5 million respectively
in FY2021. Nonetheless, the Group
plans to continue to adjust product
selling prices and new formulation
of Marketing Strategies that involve
product target market, sales mix and
selling prices, in response to changes
in the industry. The Group’s gross profit margin has
also been affected as compared to the
previous year from 18.7% to 13.4%
in FY2022. The prices of major raw
materials of the Group, particularly
corn starch and tapioca starch had
increased significantly in FY2022 as
compared with FY2021. (IV) ASSETS & LIABILITIES
Total borrowings have also increased
to RM20.247 million mainly in the form
of bankers’ acceptances to finance
higher inventories holdings in tandem
with current business requirements.
[MDA_P012]
(VI) MARKETING AND CUSTOMER BASE
EXPANSION
In ensuring that 3A is ahead of its
competitive edge, we are working
closely with our existing customers and
potential new customers to strengthen
the business relationship for both short
and long terms. More significantly,
(V) PRODUCTION
Throughout the years, plant expansions,
upgrading and modernisation
continued to be undertaken as part
of the long-term operational efficiency
initiatives. The Group had acquired
more advanced product packing
machines, monitoring apparatus to
improve efficiency such as flow meter
and hydro heater. Plant expansion
was also an important undertaking
to achieve economies of scale. The
outcome of ongoing improvements
will increase automation which will
enable us to reduce the dependence on
foreign labour as well as enhance plant
we are striving to gain loyalty with our
customers through deep understanding
and hands-on information sharing
regarding key matters such as varieties
of business, food safety, formulas and
batches, regulatory compliance, sales
and profitability and critical success
factors.
[MDA_P014]
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
and try to adjust ourselves to cater for
those requirements in order to expand
and strengthen our sales position. Concurrently, we are expanding our
R&D team and facilities to be ahead
on technical support and assistance
to our customer, should there be
any occurrence of issues on their
operations. It is critical for the Group to
continue to innovate and come up with
new ways of doing things. Maximising
the capacity of manufacturing and
enhancing our product innovation
capability are our top priority efforts
to deliver solutions that are cost-
competitive, flexible, secure, and
reliable to customers. KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND
RISKS
Exploring potential markets, plant efficiency
improvement and innovation of new product
offerings will indeed open-up new business
possibilities and provide cost savings for
3A but will also bring along with them
potential risks and challenges. The Board
and Management team have been working
hard to mitigate the potential threats that
may be disrupting the smooth running of
the business.
