document_id: MDA_6203_KHEESAN_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 10, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P006]
Distribution Channels
The Group sells its products via two distribution channels, through wholesale and modern distribution channels. In an effort to achieve higher sales volume, the Group distributes its products via both the wholesale and modern distribution
channels in Malaysia. However, for export sales, the distribution channels vary from country to country. For example, in Singapore
and Hong Kong, only the modern distribution channel will be employed whilst the wholesale channel will be more prevalent in
Indonesia and Vietnam. 5. BUSINESS RISK OVERVIEW
The Group faces several risk factors that may affect the Group’s profitability. Those risks include the following:
Labour shortages and wage fluctuations
The Group’s production activities are labour intensive in nature, thus it is prone to labour shortages. By that same breadth, it is also
subject to wage fluctuations as witnessed by the government’s amendments of Levy Payment Structure on foreign workers and the
increase in minimum wage level in peninsular Malaysia. In an effort to reduce the over-reliance to the labour issues, the Group will
continue to invest in automating the plants.
[MDA_P007]
Fluctuation of raw materials price
The fluctuation of raw materials’ prices has been an inherent issue for the Group, as well as its competitors in the similar industry. As an example, sugar price fluctuations may severely impact the Group as it is a major component of the Group’s products. Realising
this issue, the Group has taken necessary steps to reduce the risk of constant price fluctuations by engaging with its various raw
material suppliers to strive for favourable longer-term supply arrangements. At the same time, the Group are constantly exploring
with new suppliers to ensure that it is not overly dependent and reliant on its current key suppliers. The Group shall ensure that
these initiatives are carried out without compromising its products quality. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS (cont’d)
Khee San Berhad 
Annual Report
Registration No.: 199401018697 (304376-A)
[MDA_P008]
Fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rate
Significant fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rate will impact the Group’s cash flow movement and profitability as most of
its input materials are sourced from abroad. In addition, the Group also relies on its export sales which are also subject to changes
in currency exchange rates. The Group shall manage currency exchange rate fluctuations by continuing to monitor global currency
movements and, if necessary, take proactive hedging positions to mitigate such risk. Changes in consumers’ preferences
The Group is aware of the continuous shift in consumers’ taste preferences. As such it is constantly introducing innovative new
flavours for its existing product range, as well as new products and product packaging to the market. Product quality
The Group recognises that it is crucial to ensure its food-base products are high of quality. Deterioration in quality may bring severe
negative image to the Group’s product brands and create harmful long-term impact to the Group’s reputation.
[MDA_P009]
To mitigate such
occurrences, the Group has implemented strict quality management systems and quality assurance processes to ensure that there
is no deterioration in product quality. Furthermore, the group is certified as an ISO and Halal candy and wafer manufacturer. Interest rate & liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate and liquidity risk as it has considerably high bank borrowings. The board is cognisant of this
inherent risk and shall monitor its cashflow position diligently while exploring alternate avenues of funding. The Group may consider
raising funds through the capital markets when the stock market condition is much more favourable. This will help mitigate over-
reliance on banking facility which is prone to interest rate movements. 6. OUTLOOK OF FUTURE PROSPECTS
The Malaysian economy was hit due to the covid pandemic over the last two years and the Group was not spared. However, the
government has managed this pandemic well and Malaysia as a whole has achieved over 90% immunisation of the adult population
and as such there has been loosening on social movement.
