document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 55, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P005]
Our Business
Message from Our Leaders
Creating Sustainable Value
Delivering Strong Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
WIN IN EACH STORE
FUND THE JOURNEY
2021 marked the second year that on-trade
consumption
was
dampened
by
various
restrictions on dine-ins, social distancing and
operating hours, as well as the slower reopening
of bars, pubs and restaurants and the temporary
closure of entertainment outlets, which have yet
to be allowed to reopen. This adversely affected our modern on-
trade channel and permanently changed the
behaviour of a segment of consumers who now
prefer to enjoy their drinks in the safety of their
homes. Our response since the first year of the
pandemic has been agile, quick and consistent,
as we re-channelled our focus and investment
to the off-trade channel to capture the increased
demand. We reorganised internal resources and
re-strategised commercial activities to drive
sales through e-commerce, convenience stores,
mini markets, supermarkets and hypermarkets.
[MDA_P010]
We are happy to
report that the new variant has almost achieved
its full-year 2022 volume target in just three
months since launch, and without cannibalising
the 1664 Blanc, which continues to grow. Carlsberg Singapore is also set to launch the
1664 Rosé in 2022. In Malaysia, the 1664 Blanc brand brought
French and Malaysian cuisine together during
the lockdowns through its Bon Appetit-lah
campaign. Five unique French-Malaysian fusion
recipes were created by French chef Nathalie of
Nathalie Gourmet Studio and Malaysian chef
Isadora Chai of Bistro à Table for consumers to
try on their own at home by referring to step-
by-step video demonstrations. A gastronomic
cook-off competition between the two chefs
was also featured on the brand’s social media
platform to drive reach and engagement amid
the lockdown. Somersby Cider, Malaysia and Singapore’s
best-selling cider brand, released a new variant
– Somersby Watermelon Cider – in March to
further entrench its position in the cider market. This innovation is also doing well, becoming
the second best-selling variant in our Somersby
portfolio within a few months of launch.
[MDA_P024]
For instance, the Group had implemented
enhancements on the existing Flexi Working
Arrangements (FWA), including Work-From-
Home, Flexi Working Hours and also Time Off
arrangements. This FWA policy aims to support
the needs of the employees as they go through
different phases of their lives. By promoting a
flexible workplace, we believe that it will lead
to increased levels of employee engagement,
health and wellbeing of employees and
ultimately create a high performing workforce
who feels empowered and valued. In addition, the upskilling of employees and
the grooming of future leaders remained an
important strategic thrust. To read more about our people priorities, please
refer to pages 58 to 62 of this Integrated Report.
[MDA_P027]
There were also plans
to impose a federal-level requirement on all
coffeeshops and restaurants to obtain a licence
to sell beer that would have severely affected
the industry. This plan has since been shelved,
and we are thankful to the Ministry of Finance
for stepping in to remedy the matter. TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO
We believe that our business and sustainability
performance go hand in hand. One cannot thrive
without the other. We conduct our business in a
way that is sustainable over the long term, as
well as optimise financial returns in the short
term. We are convinced that our commitment to
sustainability bolstered our resilience through
another very difficult year. COVID-19 is just
one of the major crises the country faces. The
extreme weather, with floods and mini-tornados,
we experienced in different parts of Malaysia in
2021 underlines the need for urgent action to
tackle climate change. No one company can
tackle this global challenge alone – we need
businesses, governments, non-governmental
organisations and civil society to come together
for a better tomorrow.
[MDA_P028]
Consumers also have a critical role to play in
a low-carbon future and it is encouraging that
more people want to buy from brands with strong
sustainability credentials. We are harnessing the
power of our brands to encourage people to
adopt more sustainable behaviour through the
Planet Pledge that the Carlsberg Group took in
September 2021, to which our Malaysian and
Singapore operations are committed and will
adapt into local campaigns to inspire consumers. We do not just embrace the concepts of
sustainability; we have made it our mission to
influence our stakeholders to adopt sustainable
practices as well. Through our Together
Towards ZERO (TTZ) sustainability programme,
we stepped up to report on our commitment
towards ESG considerations, which also supports
10 out of the 17 United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs). DEFEND OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE
Read more on the Group’s most material ESG
issues and performance in the “Committing to
Sustainability” section on pages 39 to 68.
[MDA_P035]
Our Business
Message from Our Leaders
Commitment to Sustainability
Creating Sustainable Value
Delivering Strong Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Sustainability
strategy
TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO
Sustainability
priorities
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
2030 targets
ZERO carbon
emissions at
our breweries
30% reduction in
beer-in-hand
carbon footprint
50% reduction
in water usage at
our breweries
Partner to safeguard
shared water resources
in all high-risk areas
100% of our markets improve on
responsible drinking year-on-year
ZERO lost-time accidents
Progress
in 2021
13.4%
reduction
since 2015
8.4%
reduction
from 2015-2019
21%
reduction
since 2015
