document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 17, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 | SDS GROUP BERHAD
KELANTAN
PERLIS
KEDAH
PULAU
PINANG
SELANGOR
PUTRAJAYA
NEGERI
SEMBILAN
MELAKA
JOHOR
PAHANG
KUALA
LUMPUR
PERAK
TERENGGANU
management discussion and analysis
OUR STRATEGIES FOR MARKET AND PRODUCT (CONT’D)
Wholesale Channel
The Group business strategy for
the wholesale distribution channel
of bread and bun is to expand its
business presence to the Central
and Northern region of Peninsular
Malaysia. These expansion plans
can be manifested with the
opening of new depot at Bukit
Mertajam, Penang with a fleet of
10 delivery vehicles. Currently,
the Group has depots in 9 states
out of the 11 states in Peninsula
Malaysia. The Group also has
planned to set up a new depot in
Kedah in the near future. Varieties of bakery products under brands of ‘Top Baker’ and ‘Daily’s’ are sold under wholesale channel through
hypermarkets, supermarkets, convenience stores, some smaller grocery or sundry shops. During the year,
the Group has launched new products such as white toast peeled, pizza cheese stick and custard bun to its
customers to meet the demand of the customers’ preference and changing taste.
[MDA_P012]
The decrease in gearing ratio to 0.84 in FY2020 as compared to 1.30 in FY2019 was mainly due to the repayment of the
lease liabilities under hire purchase arrangements and the bankers’ acceptances during the year. There is also an increase
in total equity as a result of issuance of new shares due to business combination activities and public listing during the
year. RISK OVERVIEW
Food Contamination Risk
Foreign Labour Risk
Being in the food manufacturing industry, the Group is
exposed to the risk of food contamination as its food
products undergo numerous manufacturing processes
during its production. The food ingredients are generally
perishable and are vulnerable to contamination if not
properly handled, stored or packed. The Group arranges food handling training to raise
employees’ awareness of good hygiene and educate
its employees on its food safety standard and
management system. The Group’s manufacturing
facilities are also accredited with at least one food
safety certifications, such as MeSTI, Halal, Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) or ISO
22000:2005. The Group’s business operations are highly dependent
on the continued supply of foreign labour.
[MDA_P013]
Hence,
it is subjected to the labour and immigration laws
that govern the employment of foreign workers. Any
substantial changes to the policies on the employment
of foreign workers may result in a shortage in the supply
of foreign workers or an increase in labour wages. The Group continues to review its manufacturing
process and aim to automate its processes at a
reasonable cost to reduce reliance on manual labour. Downtime, Disruption or
Unplanned Shutdown Risk
Competition Risk
From
an
operational
perspective,
the
Group’s
manufacturing division will be exposed to downtime
risk. As most products are produced by its internal
manufacturing
facilities,
any
disruption
in
the
operations or unplanned shutdown would affect the
Group’s ability to generate revenue. The Group is operating in a highly competitive
environment, with a lot of competitors in the market
offering a great variety of similar products or services. To mitigate this risk, the Group strive to enhance its
menu periodically with different new F&B products and
providing excellent customer services to satisfy the
consumers’ changing tastes and preferences.
[MDA_P015]
Furthermore, the changes in customers’ spending behaviour towards online
purchasing has contributed to an increase in delivery sales revenue. The global economy experienced a
sharp moderation in the first quarter
of 2020. The pandemic of the
COVID-19 resulted in the introduction
of lockdown and social distancing
measures in major economies. This
has elevated volatility in the global
financial market and weak growth
prospects. This
impact
of
COVID-19
pandemic has affected most of the
industries in Malaysia, especially
tourism, construction, real estate,
automotive, oil and gas, travel
agencies, retail outlets and many
more have been forced to close. In
response to the significant shortfall
[MDA_P016]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 | SDS GROUP BERHAD
management discussion and analysis
LOOKING AHEAD
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented health crisis that has generated a paradigm-shifting to
trigger the economic crisis. As such, the economic front, reflective of the downturn requires policy response of a similar
unprecedented nature. This policy is reflected in the Malaysia’s stimulus package which ranks as one of the largest across
the emerging economies and the region for both direct and indirect measures. Moving forward, the Group will continue to implement more directive business strategies to mitigate any risks faced by
the Group. To adapt to the changes in customers’ behaviours, the Group expands its collaboration with other sales and
delivery channels to provide food delivery services to its customers. To maintain the Group’s profitability and growth, the
Group shall continue to manage its cash flows and cost effectively, and re-evaluate its business plans. The Group is optimistic about its future prospects. As such, the Group is confident to overcome the slowdown in
economic and competitiveness in the market by having all these initiatives and action plans.
