document_id: MDA_7103_SPRITZER_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 19, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P004]
For Financial Year Ended December 31, 2023
STRATEGIC DIRECTION
Being the largest, most integrated and the leading bottled water
company in Malaysia, we are committed to delivering to all our
consumers of our high quality bottled water products with special focus
on health benefits and at the same time, satisfying the sophisticated
taste preference and the hydration needs of our consumers. We will
continue to increase our product range to strengthen our leading
position in the Malaysian bottled water industry. We will constantly
improve our processes across our value chain and at the same time,
improving our market coverage and sales volume. We will strive to
improve our positions in the various markets where we are currently
operating. We are also exploring business opportunities and investment
in the beverage industry. We are also actively exploring and have started introducing sustainable
packaging alternatives for our Spritzer bottled water products. We also
collaborate with other stakeholders to jointly manage packaging waste
and improve collection and recycling rates for a greener Malaysia and
a more sustainable, waste-reduced future.
[MDA_P006]
Revenue, Results and Dividend
The Group recorded a new high in annual revenue of RM490.7 million in the financial year ended December 31, 2023, a
significant increase of 13% from the previous year’s revenue of RM433.3 million, mainly due to the increase in sales volume
and better average selling price. Consequent to the higher revenue recorded and the lower raw material cost incurred,
the profit before tax of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2023 was higher by 46% at RM65.9 million (2022:
RM45.2 million) mainly due to economies of scale and favourable sales mix. Similarly, the profit after tax has also increased
significantly by 34% to RM49.5 million (2022: RM37.0 million). In line with the higher earnings, the Group’s earnings per
share and diluted earnings per share for the year stood at 15.5 sen and 15.2 sen (2022: 11.8 sen and 11.4 sen) respectively. The pre-tax profit margin has risen from 10.4% to 13.4% mainly due to higher sales, economies of scale, favourable sales mix
and lower raw material cost in the current year. Similarly, the current year’s net margin has also risen from 8.5% to 10.1%.
[MDA_P012]
As of December 31, 2023, the Company’s market capitalisation has increased by 25% to RM578.8 million from RM463.7
million a year ago, with a market price per share of RM1.83 (2022: RM1.48). MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
RISKS
The Group is sensitive to various risks such as pandemic
risk, macroeconomic risk, regulatory risk, reputation risk,
business and operations risk and financial risk. The Group’s
risk management framework is designed to enable the
material risks to be identified, analysed, assessed and
managed in order to prevent or minimise possible losses. Reputation Risk
Being the leading bottled water company with dominant
market share, our core brands have high brand equity. To sustain and to enhance the image and reputation
of the Group and our branded products, we are firmly
committed to high product quality and cultivate strong
discipline to improve continuously. We cultivate ethical
and responsible business behaviour with a strong culture
to manage and to ensure compliance with the applicable
standards, internal policies and procedures, external
rules and regulations, and good practices. We invest in
and focus on effective communication, image and brand
building.
[MDA_P014]
Business Operations Risk
Our significant business operations risks include the risk
of adequacy and suitability of water supply, supply chain
risk, business disruption risk, customer/consumer loyalty
risk, regulatory risk, fraud and corruption risks, flood risk,
and competition risk. We have suitably qualified and
experienced personnel to manage our business operations
and we have established proper business processes to
ensure the proper mitigation and management of our
business operations risks. We constantly strive to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of our entire value chain. Financial Risk
Our key financial risks are credit risk and liquidity and
cash flow risk. We have established proper credit
evaluation and control processes to manage the credit
risk of our receivables. We practise prudent liquidity risk
management to minimise the mismatch of our financial
assets and financial liabilities and we have adequate
credit facilities and resources for contingency funding
requirement. The Group has a healthy balance sheet and
strong financial capability to manage its financial risk.
[MDA_P019]
We will progressively increase
the content of recycled PET in the manufacture of our
Spritzer bottles and continue to introduce sustainable
packaging alternatives for our bottled water products. We are also encouraged by the growth of Spritzer
Sparkling and carbonated mineral water products. The
new Spritzer Icon bottle has also been well received by
the on-trade or HORECA (hotel, restaurant, café) channel,
giving Spritzer another good growth channel. The Group is also taking prudent measures to monitor
and manage the higher input and operating costs and
at the same time, actively taking steps to grow its online
channel and as far as possible, to expand the overseas
markets. We will focus on sustaining our sales revenue
and to safeguard our market share in the bottled water
industry. APPRECIATION
We thank our employees for their continued hard work
and dedication and for having to face with the various
challenges and the stiff competition in the marketplace. We also thank our consumers, partners, distributors and
customers for their trust and support to our Group and
our brands. For Financial Year Ended December 31, 2023
