document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": false, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
•
 Liquid Caramel, Caramel Colour
•
 Vinegar
•
 Glucose Syrup, High Maltose Syrup
•
Soya Protein Sauce (“HVP”)
•
 Hydrolysed Vegetable Protein (“HVP”) Powder
•
 Maltodextrin
The Group serves businesses of all sizes across a broad
spectrum of industries and sectors. Our versatile range of
ingredients have different functional properties and unique
characteristics that can be tailored to customer needs. All
ingredients are Halal and Kosher certified. The Group offers diverse range of packaging options to
accommodate customer needs. There are various package
sizes ranging from bulk road tanker to small packing such
as jerrycan and carton box. Customised packaging can be
arranged to accommodate customer requirements.
[MDA_P002]
OUR ACCREDITATION & RECOGNITION
FSSC 22000 Certification by Intertek Certification International
Sdn Bhd
HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
HALAL Certification by Islamic Development Department of Malaysia
(“JAKIM”)
KOSHER Certification by Orthodox Union
Rgn : 402283
ABOUT US
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A”) is an investment
holding company which was listed since 2002 and
transferred to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in
2008. Its wholly owned subsidiary San Soon Seng
Food Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”) is one of the
leading food and beverage ingredient manufacturing
company, started as a caramel producer in 1977 and
expanded its product portfolio that have made strong
footprints in many parts of the world. 3A and SSSFI
(“the Group”) remained focused in its core strength
of manufacturing food and beverage ingredients. The Group ﬁrmly believes in producing products of
the highest quality and has successfully expanded
beyond Asian horizons and making its mark in the
international market. ABOUT US
LEADERSHIP
SUSTAINABILITY
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
[MDA_P003]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
investments on production facilities to
improve capacity and efficiency. These
business plans were carried out after
the Group had carefully conducted
comprehensive evaluation and planning
involving suitable marketing strategies
for our products and also investment
decisions. FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group recorded slightly better
revenue of RM436.16 million in FY2020
as compared to RM436.06 million in
FY2019. Meanwhile, profit before tax
and profit after tax were slightly better at
RM40.7 million and RM30.1 million
respectively in FY2020 as compared
with RM40.2 million and RM29.4 million
respectively in FY2019. Albeit the uncertain economic conditions,
the Group recorded better financial
performance that was attributed to
relatively stable raw materials costs and
effective products sales mix in FY2020. From the positive results of our marketing
efforts, export revenue of the Group in
FY2020 continued to grow to 48% of our
total revenue as compared with 39% in
FY2019.
[MDA_P006]
At the end of financial year 2020, cash
and bank balances of the Group was at
RM26.6 million whereas total borrowings
remain manageable at RM12.7 million. Therefore, the Group expects to have
adequate financial resources to continue
with the implementation of business plans
to make our vision a reality. As at 31 December 2020, total assets
and shareholders’ equity of the Group
continued to grow to RM431.8 million and
RM366.4 million respectively. The Group’s
net asset per share stood at 74.4 sen as at
the end of 2020 and earnings per share
for the year was 6.2 sen. OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
The Group is continuing with automation
plans for selected production plants with
the objective to improve production
plant efficiency and achieve savings in
operational and manpower costs. Besides,
the Group expects that these plans can
continue to bring major improvements
to products’ quality in our quest to meet
the evolving and untapped customers’
stringent requirements. On an encouraging note, the Group
is pleased to report that the utilisation
of maltodextrin production plant no. 3
had improved at the end of year 2020.
[MDA_P009]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
REVENUE
RM436.1 million
2019: RM436.0 million
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM40.7 million
2019: RM40.2 million
As we enter 2021, COVID-19 risks still linger around us. Although the Group is confident
of our future prospects, we are cognisant of challenges, amongst others, volatility in raw
materials prices brought by market uncertainties and fierce competition in our industry.
[MDA_P010]
In order to address risks of volatility in raw materials prices, expansion plans of
warehousing facilities are still on-going. Besides, the Group is carefully adapting to
current market conditions with our core competency to develop new products with
excellent quality for customers. In addition the Group will continue to come up with
targeted marketing strategies with our unique ability to change the sales mix to face
intense market competition.
Although the Group is cautious in our business approaches, the Group is continuing
its business plans to commit adequate resources to expand and upgrade production
plants. The Group strongly believes that we are on the right track to accomplish our
vision to be a recognised global leader in the food and beverage ingredients industry
known with products of exceptional quality.
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
