document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year shaped up to be one of solid recovery post-COVID lockdowns,
amidst global volatile conditions and commodities inflation. We sharpened
our focus to keep upholding the trust placed in us by Malaysians and meet
their expectations for taste, quality and nutrition, while continuing to invest
in our brands to keep our bonds with the Rakyat strong, contemporary
and relevant. At the same time, we worked hard to identify savings and
efficiencies that helped us to cushion the impact of higher commodity costs,
moderating the quantum of the unavoidable price increases. Simultaneously,
we further stepped up our ESG agenda, with another year of solid progress
in our sustainability targets. With this determined approach, our sales reached its highest growth in
many years, to RM6.7 billion. This was contributed both by domestic and
export sales, which rose by 12.9% and 29.3% respectively.
[MDA_P003]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Marking our 110th year in Malaysia, we continued to build on our well-established foundations
and the commitment and dedication of our teams across all functions, businesses, sales and
operations. Through their efforts we continued to retain our position as a strong leader in the F&B
industry and the largest FMCG in Malaysia. Our manufacturing, supply chain and distribution
operations ensured a steady stream of high-quality products that met consumer demand. Highest Growth in Decades, Record Sales
Exiting from the unprecedented conditions triggered by the pandemic and the related lockdowns,
we have seen the strongest sales acceleration in many years, building on the three pillars of
solid in-home consumption, rebound of OOH channels and acceleration of exports. Our leading
positions across the categories where we are present in combination with the work of our brand
teams, and the solid planning and execution by our sales teams and operations put us again in
the right position to capture all opportunities.
[MDA_P012]
Annual Review
we will continue advocating the many attractive elements and
strengths of Malaysia as a preferred investment location with
multiple opportunities for future growth. CONCLUSION
There is no doubt that 2022 was a complex year, where the
positive environment for growth still came together with supply
chain disruptions around the world and multiple uncertainties
and volatility. We were tested and, as a team, we proved again
our ability to provide a set of resilient results to our shareholders
while advancing without hesitation in our mission of Good Food,
Good Life. As a team, we are confident that we will continue to
drive the Company forward, staying true to our purpose and
making a positive difference in the world and in Malaysia as a
force for good. Management Discussion and Analysis
Beyond this, we rolled out enhancements to the Nestlé Global Parental Support
Policy with extended maternity and paternity leaves and have recently also
provided guidance to optimise hybrid work arrangements in ways conducive to
both increase employee satisfaction and business efficiency.
[MDA_P013]
110 Years in Malaysia: Renewing Our Commitment, Investing in The Future
Nestlé has been unstoppably investing in Malaysia, preserving and expanding
our operational capabilities, though thick and thin; before, during and after
COVID-19. The inauguration of our PBMS facility in Shah Alam in 2021 was
followed in 2022 by significant capacity expansion projects in both our Batu Tiga
MAGGI and Chembong Ice Cream factories, amongst others. In 2023, we will
start a new round of projects that will bring approximately RM1 billion of capital
expenditure (CAPEX) over the next few years. Through these investments, we will
maintain the competitiveness of our factories and support the sustainable growth
of the business. We thank the Nestlé Group worldwide for renewing their trust in
Malaysia as a fundamental base for manufacturing and exports across Asia and
We will continue to
drive the Company
forward, staying true
to our purpose and
making a positive
difference in the world
and in Malaysia as a
force for good. Team Nestlé celebrating with the community of KITAR Recycling Programme.
