document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2020
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 20, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management
Discussion & Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
At the very onset of the pandemic, we quickly realigned our
priorities significantly to ramp up safety, health and preventive
measures for our people and to preserve operational
continuity. We focused increasingly on the pressing needs of
communities, whether it be through providing nourishment
with our high-quality products, or via outreach and support
programmes. As a result of our efforts to sustain business growth while
meeting the needs of Malaysians, we recorded a turnover
of RM5.4 billion for the financial year. This result balanced
the severe impact to out-of-home channels, with an
acceleration of in-home consumption. The Group’s core F&B
businesses grew by 2.3% on the back of solid sales execution
and effective marketing and communication campaigns. The Group registered a resilient profit after tax of RM552.7
million and a profit before tax of RM724.8 million, with strong
cash flow results preserving the solid financial position of the
Company in a difficult year.
[MDA_P003]
15. Annua l Revie w
Our business focus continued to build on the pillars of
previous years, namely:
1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum;
2. Continue nurturing the love and trust in our brands;
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for the
future; and
4. Leading the industry’s way into a greener future. 1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum
As more people stayed at home due to movement restrictions,
we found new ways to engage consumers via digital tools and
explored innovative approaches to help deliver our products
to consumers. Underpinning this was our manufacturing
and supply chain resilience which allowed us to maintain
operational continuity, coupled with excellence in sales
execution supported by our best-in-class sales force to ensure
on-shelf availability. Driving digital engagement and e-commerce
Throughout the year, we continued to engage our consumers
digitally and further ramped up our online activations. We explored new models such as live streaming and shifted
from traditional product launches to online events, offering
consumers an interactive online shopping experience and
successfully increasing our reach.
[MDA_P004]
Through this, we saw the
launches of several new offerings such as NESCAFÉ Latte
Milk Tea coffee mixes and MAGGI FUSIAN Sarang Kimchi and
Karai Miso bowl noodles. We also leveraged on the Dalgona
coffee craze, with a live stream event featuring how Dalgona
coffee can be prepared using NESCAFÉ products. Campaigns such as the Nestlé Super Brand Day and
11.11 drove significant traffic to our products across key
e-commerce platforms and helped accelerate our online
penetration, leading to record-breaking achievements during
the big online sales days. All these allowed us to drive strong
growth in e-commerce, further reinforcing our position as the
biggest e-commerce business among the Nestlé markets in
Southeast Asia. Exploring new business models to reach out to consumers
Responding to the shift in consumer behaviour towards
higher in-home consumption, categories like Ice Cream took
on the challenge to continue delighting Malaysians at home. The new NESTLÉ Ice Cream Home Delivery business model
proved to be a resounding success when it was first piloted
and was subsequently rolled out nationwide within a week of
launching.
[MDA_P006]
Manufacturing and supply chain excellence
Throughout the pandemic, we upheld our commitment
to ensure continued production and delivery of our foods
and beverages to consumers. Our manufacturing, supply
chain and distribution operations demonstrated remarkable
resilience and agility, allowing us to provide Malaysians with
a stable supply of essential products across our brands such
as MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ, whilst strictly adhering to the
safety requirements set by the Government. Best-in-class sales execution
Serving a wide spectrum of customers and consumers
throughout the nation with diverse preferences and
requirements, our extensive sales network continued to play
a core role in driving performance and ensuring continuous
availability of products for all Malaysians during the pandemic. Our sales force plays a decisive contribution to revenue growth. Working as a cohesive unit together with other functions,
brands and geographies in Malaysia, this enables our sales
team to keep a pulse on evolving needs of the retail ecosystem.
[MDA_P007]
Throughout 2020, our sales force frontliners tirelessly worked
to ensure the continued relevance and strong presence of our
market-leading brands across all channels.
[MDA_P010]
The session was aimed at
empowering the participants to be more confident as well as
cultivating their digital, entrepreneurial and culinary skills. MILO rallied Malaysians to donate through #SkuadKebaikan
MILO food parcels via Shopee. Seven charity organisations
received a ‘Box of Hope’ comprising MILO bundle packs and
other Nestlé products. Providing better nutrition and encouraging healthier lives through a pandemic
We continuously innovate and transform our product portfolio to improve the nutritional profile of our offerings and also meet evolving and rising
consumer expectations. This has allowed us to fulfil the more stringent requirements of the Malaysian Ministry of Health’s (MOH) Healthier Choice
Logo (HCL) introduced in 2020. As at end-2020, a total of 22 Nestlé products have attained the more stringent HCL certification. More information on the Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup can be found on page 22 of this report. A R
