document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2024
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 73, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
A HISTORIC MILESTONE & MASSIVE TRANSITION TOWARDS RESPONSIBLE GROWTH
2024 was history in the making for Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad. One notable milestone was bidding farewell to
our iconic DLMI@PJ manufacturing facility, established in 1966 to produce our first product, sweetened condensed
milk. Over the years, we continued to innovate with evolving nutritional and consumer needs such as liquid milk and
powdered children’s formula. DLMI@PJ held great significance for many. For consumers, it was a trusted source of
dairy for their families. For our employees, suppliers and customers, it was a hub of collaboration and growth. For
passers-by, it stood as a distinct landmark in Petaling Jaya, featuring the iconic Daisy and Maya cow figurines and the
Dutch windmill replica. Beyond these, DLMI@PJ’s most enduring contribution was the realisation of our purpose: to build
a healthier nation by Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life. Secondly, the year marked our complete relocation to our 13-hectare DLMI@Enstek manufacturing facility, which is
three times larger in land size and twice as large in capacity as our previous DLMI@PJ facility.
[MDA_P003]
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
2024 was a historic milestone and a
year of massive transition for DLMI
as we fully moved to our new Halal
manufacturing facility DLMI@
Enstek, with double the capacity
and IR4.0 capabilities. The year
signalled our strong commitment
to Nourishing Our Nation with
improved nutritional content,
responsible business practices and
meaningful growth, championed
by our committed employees and
supportive stakeholders. Despite
the challenging operational
environment and the planned
transition, our focus on internal
cost optimisation, fit-for-purpose
organisation and governance,
helped us deliver positive
results in FY2024. As we move
forward, we remain steadfast
in our aspiration to produce
healthy, Halal dairy nutrition
in balance with the planet,
continuing to drive our purpose
of Nourishing Our Planet and
People in Every Stage of Life.
Section
[MDA_P004]
We are well-positioned to achieve our ambitions for 2030 and beyond, as we work to unlock the full potential of our
new state-of-the-art, IR4.0-enabled manufacturing facility. DLMI@Enstek will play a crucial role in strengthening our
commitment to: 1) Fostering long-term public-private partnerships to enhance Malaysia’s dairy sector, particularly in raw
milk production, and 2) Addressing the triple burden of malnutrition in Malaysia, especially among children under 12 years
old. Our strategic investment in DLMI@Enstek exemplifies our dedication to driving profits with a purpose. CHALLENGES THAT CONTINUE DUE TO EXTERNAL PRESSURES
We continued to experience volatility in both global and local markets, with fluctuating prices of dairy raw materials and
foreign exchange rates. This has increased the cost of doing business in an already challenging operating environment,
compounded by ever-evolving regulations and policies. Businesses locally and regionally continued to find opportunities
to innovate their business models, strengthen governance, build resilience and future-proof people and product solutions.
[MDA_P005]
At DLMI, our core strategy for managing external pressures is to prioritise prudence in managing our financial and resource
investments. This approach ensures we achieve adequate cost savings, explore alternative revenue-boosting measures,
and most importantly, maintain a motivated workforce. We continued to play a pivotal role in industry coalitions
such as MAREA and CAN, where we demonstrated
leadership in driving their respective agendas effectively. DLMI assumed the chair for MAREA and catalysed the
launch of Malaysia’s first DEI Guidelines in CAN. We will
continue to actively participate and collaborate with our
industry peers to shape future best practices and even
policies to raise the bar on sustainability performance. In line with our purpose of Nourishing Our Nation, DLMI has
partnered with the Petaling Jaya Parliamentary Office to
support a social enterprise project, the “Healthy Eating and
Nutrition Programme for Children” (Program Pemakanan
Sihat dan Nutrisi Kanak-Kanak).
[MDA_P008]
Nutrition: The nutritional status of Malaysians is concerning, with shifting consumer preferences and lifestyles making
it harder to achieve optimal nutrition through conscious dietary choices. In response, we activated a plan to strengthen
our Nutrition Story both internally and externally. This reinforces the importance of a nutritious diet, with dairy as a
nutrition-dense food, remaining central to our brand and consumer value propositions. Performance
People
2024 marked a significant transformation of our Human
Resources function, essential for fostering collaboration
across our diverse, agile and adaptive teams. The new HR
Operating Model, effective from 1 April, 2024, is designed
to enhance our processes and service delivery, transitioning
to an integrated, digitalised, cross-border, and professionalised
end-to-end model driven by business, regional and global
expertise. Additionally, we have renamed the HR function
to ‘People and Culture’ to better reflect the pivotal role HR
plays at DLMI. Amid this transition, we were assessed and rated in the
Top Quartile of Top Employers in Malaysia – the original
2030 target that we achieved ahead in time.
