document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2021
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“By staying focused on what mattered, Nestlé
Malaysia has been able to manage the ongoing
challenges of the pandemic in 2021, accelerating
growth and improving year-on-year profitability,
while supporting the community in times of need and
accelerating our sustainability efforts.”
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Through 2021, the second and hopefully final year of the pandemic, we
remained focused around the three key priorities we had stated in 2020:
protecting our people, ensuring a steady supply of food and beverages to
Malaysians and support to the community in multiple ways. All this was to
be done while accelerating our efforts to mitigate the environmental impact
of our operations. We were able in the above context to accelerate growth to reach sales of RM5.7
billion, 5.9% increase from 2020. This was contributed by both domestic and
export sales, which grew by 6.2% and 5.0% respectively. OOH channels, in
spite of the long lockdown periods throughout the year, started their recovery
which accelerated in the fourth quarter as the MCO was lifted.
[MDA_P002]
Overall, solid
growth in combination with our disciplined approach to cost management
and the partial mitigation of the impact from commodity headwinds allowed
us to record a recovery in profit after tax of RM569.8 million for the year, up
by 3.1%, while profit before tax stood at RM751.8 million (+3.7% increase). BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
In navigating through the second year of the pandemic, we stayed focused
in protecting the business core, once again ensuring flawless commercial
execution across all channels and retailers. Indeed, through our sales and distributor network which allows us to cover
the full spectrum of channels and geographies across the country, our highly
capable and committed sales team was able to ensure the presence in-
store of all our brands, serving the needs of our customers and consumers. Amidst the many restrictions during the pandemic, this was key to ensure
the availability of our products across the nation.
[MDA_P003]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Management Discussion and Analysis
Likewise, our industrial sites and supply chain operations allowed us to fulfil the solid demand for our brands, even in the most difficult moments of the lockdown, when only 60% of the
workforce was allowed to operate on-site. This constrained operational environment makes even more remarkable the progress achieved in executing major investments across our various sites
during 2021, reinforcing the foundations and our footprint to be able to support growth through the coming years. As we are now watching the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel, I would want to acknowledge the impressive participation of all our teams in the National Vaccination programme, as well
as our effort to encourage Malaysians to get vaccinated through our national communications campaign incentivising Malaysians to register for vaccination and offering e-wallet vouchers worth
a total of RM500,000 as rewards. We had also the privilege of supporting frontliners by providing meals at selected Vaccination Administration Centres.
[MDA_P004]
In addition to focused execution to ensure the steady supply of our core products, we also paid close attention to emerging consumer trends, and this allowed us to introduce a stream of new
products that contributed incremental sales and opened new avenues to ensure future growth. You can see many of them referred to in the individual business review section later in this report. Allow me to refer in particular to the new platforms we have launched to address the growing interest in healthier and more sustainable lifestyles, especially important for the new generations. This realisation is behind our entrance into the plant-based space, with the opening of our plant-based meal solution manufacturing facility in Shah Alam in March 2021, and the launch of
our HARVEST GOURMET brand. As Nestlé’s first facility of its kind in the ASEAN region, this enables us to capture, under the Harvest Gourmet brand, the rising demand for plant-based foods
in both our domestic and export markets, supplying Malaysian-made, high-quality, great-tasting Halal-certified plant-based meals.
[MDA_P008]
Marking another first, we introduced our new LIVELY Tea range, which is lower in sugar and is
infused with plant extracts that make them a ‘better-for-you’ refreshment option within the tea
drinks segment. Further highlighting the nutritional benefits of our products, we refreshed our
NESPRAY brand to enhance its positioning as a wholesome milk powder that delivers the right
nutrition to children, and the only full cream milk in Malaysia with 15 essential vitamins and
minerals that are key to a child’s development. Through our research and development (R&D) expertise and product innovation efforts, we
continuously work towards ensuring that our products meet the strict requirements of the
Malaysian Ministry of Health’s Healthier Choice Logo (HCL) 2.0. As a result, we have successfully
obtained HCL 2.0 certification for 36 Nestlé products as of 2021, offering the largest portfolio
of HCL products in the country. Beyond our portfolio of great-tasting and nutritious products, we promoted healthier lifestyles
through strategic initiatives at the grassroots levels to elevate sports development, particularly
among youths.
