document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2024
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 29, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management
Discussion
and Analysis
The Group successfully registered a
revenue of RM324.1 million in FY2024,
marking an increase of 14.2% over the
revenue of RM283.7 million in FY2023. OVERVIEW
he financial year ended 31
March 2024 (“FY2024”) proved
challenging,
despite
the
expectations of the economy
accelerating rapidly forward in the
pandemic recovery era. Nonetheless,
SDS Group Berhad and its subsidiaries
(“SDS” or “the Group”) have achieved
yet another year of commendable
performance. In FY2024, the Group
successfully registered a revenue of
RM324.1 million, marking an increase
of 14.2% over the revenue of RM283.7
million in FY2023. This is attributable to the Group’s
business agility and resilience in rising
to meet the challenges head-on, driven
by the commitment and dedication of
our SDS team members. It is with great pleasure that we present
to you the Management Discussion and
Analysis of our Annual Report 2024,
which will provide a brief review of the
business and operational performance
of SDS for FY2024 while setting out an
overview of our plans and prospects
for the coming years.
[MDA_P002]
This discussion should be read in
conjunction with the Group’s audited
financial statements in the later section
of this annual report. This is attributable to the
Group’s business agility and
resilience in rising to meet the
challenges head-on,
driven by the commitment
and dedication of our SDS
team members. T
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
[MDA_P003]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
DOMESTIC REVIEW
he global economic situation weighed significantly on
Malaysia’s economy which was already impacted by
the increased inflation, unemployment and shrinking
incomes. To manage the erosion of the ringgit and
growing inflation, Bank Negara Malaysia remained resolute
in maintaining the overnight policy rate (“OPR”) at 3.00% for
much of the financial year 2024. Malaysia’s overall economic performance fluctuated in
2023, with the Gross Domestic Product recording 3.7%, a
sharp fall from 8.7% in the previous year. Adding to this is
the weakening of the Malaysian ringgit to as low as RM4.70
to the US dollar in December 2023. Malaysia’s economy
experienced a slowdown due to weakened external demand
and a reduction in commodity production, affecting the local
market purchasing power. Compounding this was the impact
on the business’s supply chain, higher costs of raw materials,
ingredient costs as well as pricing of products. Notwithstanding this, there has been a gradual uptrend in
the local operating environment, with business travel and
international and domestic tourism taking off.
[MDA_P004]
The pandemic-
activated digital mindset has supported a fast-paced lifestyle
and changing market trends of consumers’ expectations. Management Discussion
and Analysis
T
INDUSTRY REVIEW
The landscape of Malaysia’s food and beverage (F&B)
industry has experienced a noticeable paradigm shift in the
financial year under review. FY2024 saw the entry of new
players, all of whom capitalised on the power of social media,
fresh business ideas and innovative new products. The local
market also evolved considerably, particularly with e-wallet
payment and food delivery services. Health and general well-being have now taken centre stage,
leading to greater attention on good manufacturing practices
and nutrition, the essence of the food and beverage industry. This augurs well for SDS, having established itself over 37
years as a well-recognised name for quality, value-for-money
confectionery products and excellent customer service. Not one to rest on its laurels, SDS has embraced innovation,
technology and cost management to drive efficiency of
operations and hence manage cost competitiveness in light
of escalating prices.
[MDA_P005]
We are also continuously exploring
avenues to further reduce the cost of products and processes
while maintaining its packaging attractiveness, a key element
to our affordable pricing strategy. In addition, we have leveraged our creative expertise and
skills to stay relevant and cater to the discerning expectations
of consumers. In this, SDS has redoubled our research and
development efforts to ensure continuous rollout of creative
products, which have been well received by customers. This has led to business expansion, increased reach to
our potential customer base and hence, strengthened our
earnings over the years. We are also continuously exploring
avenues to further reduce the cost
of products and processes
while maintaining its packaging
attractiveness, a key element to
our affordable pricing strategy.
[MDA_P006]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Total assets recorded an increase of 19.5% to RM193.4 million during FY2024. This was largely attributable to the increase in capital expenditures, including the
acquisition of three parcels of land at Mukim Tebrau, Daerah Johor Bahru, totalling
RM14.4 million for expanding manufacturing facilities in future. The Group’s strong financial position is also reflected in its cash and bank balance
of RM30.0 million in FY2024, representing an 8.9% increase over FY2023. This
was achieved by the improvement of revenue and profit, and a conservative
capital management and capital expenditure policy, enabling it to mitigate any
unexpected financial situations and pivot to capitalise on expansion activities
where needed. SDS is committed to driving value creation for the benefit of our shareholders. On
this note, the dividend declared for FY2024 was 1.65 sen compared to 1.25 sen in
FY2023, an increase of 32.0%. The Group would like to express its gratitude to its loyal shareholders for their
trust and confidence in the Group’s management and operational excellence in
producing such a strong financial outcome.
