document_id: MDA_3689_FN_2022
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 83, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Market Review
OUR OPERATING LANDSCAPE
The year 2022 has been marked by two key
and opposing factors. Positively, it has seen the
gradual unravelling of movement and social
restrictions imposed to contain COVID-19. Yet, rather than herald a significant economic
recovery, global GDP growth is expected to
decelerate to about 3.2 per cent after hitting
a high of 6.1 per cent in 2021. The International
Monetary Fund (IMF) was prompted to
downgrade its GDP forecast in July 2022
because of the Russia-Ukraine war, intermittent
COVID-19 outbreaks, and a continued slowdown
in manufacturing and logistics. Starting from a lower base of 3.1 per cent
growth in 20211 , Malaysia’s GDP is expected
to expand by 6.4 per cent according to the
World Bank, supported by domestic demand
underpinned by enhanced labour market
conditions2. Growth in Thailand, meanwhile, is
anticipated at between 2.7 per cent and 3.2 per
cent3, slightly higher than initially predicted as
the tourism industry is beginning to pick up. This is from a base of 1.5 per cent growth in
2021.
[MDA_P002]
Key factors reigning in a fuller recovery
are high inflation and muted trade with China,
which has enforced several lockdowns in
attempts to maintain zero-COVID. Economic growth discrepancy aside, both
countries continue to be affected by supply
chain disruptions and a sharp increase in
the price of commodities, especially palm
oil, skimmed milk powder and tin plates – all
of which are used in F&NHB’s products and
packaging. Both our key markets have also been
impacted by the US Government’s monetary
tightening and interest rate hikes, which have
resulted in the reverse flow of capital from
emerging markets back to the US, contributing
to depreciation in regional currencies. As of the end of September 2022, the Malaysian
ringgit had weakened to 4.6 against the dollar. However, the Thai Baht was even more affected,
dipping to 38 against the dollar – marking its
lowest exchange rate since July 2006. The
weak Ringgit and Baht further increase the cost
of already high imported commodity prices.
[MDA_P005]
There is increased demand for low-sugar
or no-sugar beverages, low-fat foods and
nutritious food and beverage products. At
the same time, more people are converting
to a plant-based diet. Another outcome
of the pandemic is greater awareness of
staying active to enhance natural immunity
against COVID-19. People are exercising
more and enjoying other outdoor activities
to maintain good mental and physical
health. Therefore, food and beverage (F&B)
players must cater to healthier lifestyles to
resonate better with the current consumer
mindset. • Our sugar index has dropped by 50%
over the last ten years, representing the
reduction of total sugar content in our
drinks from 2013 to 2022. Over 90% of
the ready-to-drink products sold today
have less than 5g of sugar per 100 ml. • More than half of our total product
portfolio
now
comprises
healthier
options endorsed by MOH’s Healthier
Choice Logo, including six new products
this year. • We invested RM128 million in a new liquid
milk and plant-based manufacturing
facility in Wang Muang and are equipping
our Pulau Indah plant with plant-based
capabilities.
[MDA_P008]
Before
the end of 2022, we will be generating
enough renewable energy to replace 20
per cent of our electricity requirement
with solar panels on the roofs of our plants. • Our new Shah Alam warehouse and regional
distribution centre in Rojana (RDC) will
contribute to an annual reduction of 1,400
tonnes of CO2e emissions from reduced
forklift operations and lesser shunting and
double handling. • F&B Thailand is guiding some 2,000 dairy
farmers in a cooperative to assess their
carbon emissions and develop plans to
reduce their carbon footprint. • We began a phased implementation of
climate-related
disclosures
in
relation
to the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial
Disclosures
(TCFD)
recommendations
and
conducted
a
climate-related impact assessment this
year. As the global population grows, we are
consuming more and more of the world’s
natural resources and discarding an increasing
volume of waste, 90 per cent of which is either
dumped or burned. Landfills overflow while
poorly managed waste gets washed by rain
and drains into the sea.
[MDA_P009]
As the World Bank puts
it, poorly managed waste is contaminating the
world’s oceans, clogging drains, transmitting
diseases, increasing respiratory problems
from burning, and unknowingly harming
animals that consume waste. Among the
most effective solutions to the problem is to
increase circularity in the value chain, reduce
raw materials needed, prioritise renewable
inputs, and recover/recycle as much as
possible. Consumers and other stakeholders
today have high expectations of corporations
in the fast-moving consumer goods sector to
demonstrate a commitment to effective and
sustainable waste management. • Apart from renewable energy, we source
raw materials that are produced sustainably,
such as RSPO, VIVE, and BONSUCRO. We
only use paper carton products certified
by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). We
also aim to achieve 100 per cent physical
certified palm oil by 2025. • We have increased the use of recycled
material in our packaging to 25 per cent and
aim for all beverage and dairy packaging to
be 100 per cent recyclable by 2025.
