document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 21, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“Through the significant external challenges confronted in 2024, Nestlé Malaysia remained focused on consistently delivering on
our mission to provide high-quality nutrition, foods and beverages through our vast range of products, all Halal-certified, sold under
trusted brands, and proudly made in Malaysia, by Malaysians. As we have done throughout our 112 years in Malaysia, we continued
to adapt, innovate and, above all, stay true to our purpose of being a positive force in the life of the nation, creating shared value for all
our stakeholders and leading industry action towards building a more sustainable future.“
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
Business, Financial & Operational Review
The defining element of the operating environment in 2024 was the unfavourable
sentiment and hesitancy towards international brands triggered by global
events. This was compounded by constrained consumer purchasing power and
persistent volatility in food-related commodity costs, impacting the cost of living
for many Malaysian families.
[MDA_P004]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Overall, while the decline in revenue had an unfavourable impact on short-
term bottom-line results, the Company’s financial position has remained
strong, allowing us to deliver another year of solid dividends of RM1.79
per share. As mentioned earlier, 2024 was a year focused on building operational
resilience, alongside sharpening our competitive edge in an evolving
market landscape while ensuring that the key fundamental elements in the
narrative of our brands and Nestlé as a whole were well explained and
understood by all Malaysians. We implemented comprehensive measures
to address and respond to shifting consumer sentiments while enhancing
our value propositions across different market segments, in order for our
products to remain highly accessible to Malaysian consumers. Through
every endeavour, we consistently upheld our commitment to quality,
nutrition and Halal certification, while continuing to protect the consumer
taste preferences intrinsically associated with our core brands.
[MDA_P005]
Furthermore, brand-building activities were reassessed to enhance
consumer trust and leverage rising social media channels like TikTok,
resulting in more efficient marketing investments and optimised returns. Consumers at the Heart of Innovation
Innovation maintained its value as a core pillar, enabling us to adapt
our product portfolio to evolving consumer preferences and expand
our consumer base with new and relevant propositions. Throughout
the year under review, innovation helped to uphold our market-leading
positions, expanding penetration into new consumer segments, while
further reinforcing our mission of delivering high-quality, nutritious and
great-tasting Halal products, with value propositions that resonate with
Malaysians. We continued to focus on providing healthier choices in line with our
global “Good for You” strategy, with Nestlé Malaysia offering the largest
range of Healthier Choice Logo (HCL) certified products by the Malaysian
Ministry of Health (MOE).
[MDA_P006]
This HCL certification currently encompasses,
among others, 100% of our MILO powder and mixes range, where we have
been able to significantly reduce the sugar content while still providing all
the nutrition and taste that only MILO can deliver. This includes the MILO
Intense Dark Chocolate launched in 2024, offering an equally nutritious
option with a richer and more indulgent taste. Local origins were another area of focus with the addition of KIT KAT Dark Borneo, the first product from our Nestlé
Borneo Cocoa Initiative, in partnership with the Malaysian Cocoa Board, that aims to accelerate the development of
sustainable cocoa farming in Sabah and Sarawak. This secures a localised supply chain of responsibly-produced raw
ingredients, while we elevate the living conditions of the rural communities involved. Many other meaningful portfolio additions occurred in 2024. The KIT KAT Chocolate Drink made its debut as a first-
of-its-kind product created and produced in Malaysia, 100% Halal-certified and made with sustainably sourced cocoa.
[MDA_P011]
Some examples of major activities that helped to power up positive sentiments
toward Nestlé brands were the following:
•
The NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk a Million Miles campaign once again
encouraged awareness and action for heart health, promoting healthier
lifestyles. In its fifth edition since the adoption of digitally enabled tools, we
rallied a record 30,622 Malaysians who collectively achieved over 2.1 million
miles, doubling the campaign's target. •
MILO's long-standing efforts in spearheading grassroots sports development
were further strengthened through our support for Malaysia's Olympic and
Paralympic athletes. Contributing RM10,000 to each of the 56 national
athletes representing Malaysia at the 2024 Paris Olympics and Paralympic
Games, this initiative was aimed at celebrating their dedication and inspiring
future generations of athletes. •
The MAGGI Sah Malaysia Carnival brought communities together in 2024
for yet another year of celebration of Malaysian culinary heritage. Reflecting
the brand's five-decade legacy, the event attracted over 30,000 attendees
through interactive experiences and cooking demonstrations, amongst other
activities.
