document_id: MDA_7216_KAWAN_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 11, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
As we reflect on 2024, I am proud
to report that this has been a year
of strategic transformation and
resilient progress for our company. Amidst a dynamic operating environment, we remained
steadfast in our mission to deliver high-quality frozen food
products while laying the groundwork for a stronger, more
sustainable future. A key milestone was the modernisation of our plant, where
we adopted National Industrial Revolution 4.0 initiatives. The integration of automation, robotics, and IoT has
improved our production efficiency and optimised
operational costs. Our commitment to sustainability remains
a core focus. Guided by Environmental,
Social and Governance ("ESG") principles,
we have contributed meaningfully to
the
economic,
environmental,
and
social pillars of our business, aligning
our initiatives with the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals. We
also
prioritised
our
workforce,
enhancing compensation and benefits
to retain talent and improve productivity. At the same time, we continued
applying LEAN manufacturing tools to
drive efficiency and reduce waste.
[MDA_P005]
A special acknowledgment goes to our Export team,
particularly for their exceptional focus on North America,
achieving a remarkable 34.9% surge in sales to RM75.68
million, driven by strong market demand and successful
expansion initiatives. Europe also performed strongly,
with revenue increasing by 24.6% to RM43.06 million,
reflecting our expanding market presence and growing
brand acceptance. In FY2024, the effective tax rate (24%) is higher than
previous year due to full utilisation of reinvestment
allowances. Importantly, our investments in new production lines
and automations have enhanced output capabilities,
demonstrating
our
commitment
to
operational
excellence and ESG commitments. These investments
have positioned us for better success in future. Performance Overview
Revenue
2023: RM287.22 million
RM317.55
million
Malaysia
RM135.99
million
North America
RM75.68
million
Europe
RM43.06
million
[MDA_P006]
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Strategic Realignments and Risk Mitigation
The
Board’s
decision
to
consolidate
production
underscores our focus on core competencies and agility. Additionally, workforce reviews were initiated to align
headcount with evolving wage policies, ensuring cost
efficiency ahead of Malaysia’s minimum wage increase
in February 2025. We remain vigilant about emerging risks, including
rising commodity prices, geopolitical shifts, and foreign
exchange volatility. To address these, we are deepening
partnerships
with
long-term
suppliers,
executing
currency hedging strategies, and exploring alternative
raw materials. Additionally, we are strengthening
environmental and climate resilience through energy-
efficient upgrades and sustainable sourcing practices. Forward-Looking Strategies for Growth
Looking ahead, KFB is committed to strengthening export
resilience and expanding market reach. We aim to
penetrate new regions in ASEAN and Europe. Affordable
product lines tailored to cost-conscious consumers will
complement this effort, supported by targeted marketing
campaigns. Cost optimisation remains central to our strategy.
[MDA_P007]
Automation investments will offset labour cost pressures. Our governance structure has been revitalised with a
dynamic leadership team, blending seasoned expertise
with fresh perspectives. Training programs will also play
a crucial role in upskilling our workforce in automation
and sustainability, ensuring we are future-ready. Outlook and Confidence in the Future
The global appetite for frozen foods—valued for
affordability
and
convenience—continues
to
grow. This positions KFB favourably for long-term success. While margin pressures from commodity costs and
taxes persist, our investments in automation, market
diversification, and ESG-aligned practices will bolster
competitiveness edge. We are excited about the
commissioning of new advanced paratha equipment
in Q2 FY2025, alongside plans for affordable product
launches, all of which support our growth ambitions. With a revitalised governance structure, a robust
domestic base, and a clear roadmap for export, KFB is
poised to navigate challenges and deliver sustained value
to stakeholders. We extend our gratitude to employees,
partners, and shareholders for their unwavering support
as we build a resilient, forward-looking enterprise.
