document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2020
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 77, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
“The cover of our Annual
Report 2020 is symbolic of our
organisation’s collective sentiment
during the difficult time, it
represents our team spirit to keep
the lights shining in the
darkness, and it reflects
our commitment as One
Strong Winning Team to
stay true to our purpose:
Brewing a Sustainable
Future for Our People,
Business and Planet.”
Roland Bala
Managing Director
One Strong
Winning Team
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 | HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
2020 was a difficult year. The Covid-19 global pandemic brought the
economy to a standstill. Faced with the immediate need to bring the
contagion under control, the Malaysian Government introduced the
Movement Control Order (MCO) in March 2020, allowing only essential
sectors of the economy to continue operating, whilst putting strict
restrictions on all other activities, including social activities. Looking back at the 46 consecutive days from 18 March to 3
May 2020, it can be said that those were the darkest days of our
Company’s history in Malaysia as we had to suspend operations
at our Sungei Way Brewery during this period to comply with
the MCO. The cover of our Annual Report 2020 is symbolic of
our organisation’s collective sentiment during the difficult time,
it represents our team spirit to keep the lights shining in the
darkness, and it reflects our commitment as One Strong Winning
Team to stay true to our purpose: Brewing a Sustainable Future
for our People, Business and Planet.
[MDA_P006]
Who We Are
Our Strategies
Performance
Review
Growing
Our People
Protecting
Our Planet
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers
And Others
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2020
of the proactive interventions that we have undertaken. As
such, we aim to continue maintaining a high level of discipline
in enforcing the health-related SOPs and continually remind
employees about the necessary health and safety precautions. STAYING CONNECTED WITH CUSTOMERS & CONSUMERS
We started 2020 with the Chinese New Year festive campaign
led by Tiger Beer, Malaysia’s No. 1 Beer. The year of the rat
coincided with Tiger’s 88th anniversary and we went all out
to give consumers an exciting festive season. Aptly named
‘Double The Huat’ in honour of the double celebration, we ran
a successful series of promotions, contests and activations on
a grander scale than ever before across all channels, including
restaurants, coffee shops, supermarkets, convenience stores and
e-Commerce. However, due to the pandemic and nationwide lockdown,
most of the commercial plans for the rest of the year were
affected. For example, the annual Guinness St. Patrick’s
celebration in March had to be canceled.
[MDA_P007]
Meanwhile, we had
to adapt to the new realities that Covid-19 had forced upon
society. Consumption drivers such as dining out and having
social gatherings at restaurants, pubs and bars were curtailed
significantly by various restrictions. Indeed, certain outlets
with liquor licenses such as pubs and entertainment outlets
were prohibited from operating. Unfortunately, the perpetual
restrictions have significantly impacted the economy and
consumer sentiment. Local businesses who depend on beer as a
source of revenue have struggled to survive. The Confederation
of Malaysian Brewers Berhad estimates that around 3,800 of
these outlets have remain closed during the year with some
38,000 jobs at risk. During this challenging year, it was important to remain
connected with our customers and consumers. We leveraged the
power of our brands to help re-connect consumers to businesses. Through our Tiger Save Our Street Food campaign, we channeled
RM1.5 million to help restaurants, food courts and street food
vendors who were affected directly by the lockdown. During the
campaign, supporters could purchase a voucher for a big bottle
of Tiger or Tiger Crystal.
[MDA_P011]
Group profit before tax dropped 52%, principally due to the
same reasons mentioned above and the one-off settlement of
the Customs’ Bills of Demand amounting to RM7.2 million in
June 2020 as well as and a one-off provision of RM14 million in
December 2020 for costs associated with the organisational
restructuring exercise being implemented in 2021. Nevertheless,
this was partially mitigated by the cost savings measures. Net cash from operating activities for FY2020 decreased by 45%
to RM226 million, in tandem with the decline in Group revenue
and operating profit and also due to the reduction in business
activities in line with the cost saving initiatives undertaken by
the Group during the year. Net assets for FY2020 was recorded at RM349 million, 11%
lower versus FY2019 mainly due to the decline in Group business
performance and the reduction in capital expenditure in line
with the cost saving measures. The Group paid a total of RM1.05 billion in excise, custom duties,
and sales tax for the year. The Group incurred a total of RM44
million in income tax, translated into an effective tax rate of 24%.
