document_id: MDA_8478_HWATAI_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Certain countries like Philippines, Nigeria and Cambodia, saw an
increase in demand in our biscuits in FYE 2022 but was partially offset by the decline of sales due to lockdown in
certain countries especially in China and Middle East due to Covid-19 pandemic. The performance of international
market would have been better but was affected mainly by the exorbitant freight charges that have gone up few folds. While our export market has room for growth, we may face challenges with more competition as the market is getting
crowded with more low quality producers surfacing from various other countries, the ongoing spread of coronavirus
Covid-19, increase in price of commodities, as well as pushing up the cost of freight horrendously. FYE 2022, domestic sales only marginally rose by 3.62% to RM63.08 million from RM60.87 million a year ago, mainly
due to the easing of various Movement Control Order in the second quarter of FYE2022, Malaysian started to dine
out and spent less on groceries for home consumptions.
[MDA_P003]
To remain competitive in both international and domestic markets, distribution channel improvement, sales force
efficiency and effectiveness, continuous spending on advertising and promotional activities such as, among others,
on-going social media interactions, on-ground events & activities, roadshows, price rebates, engaging promoters,
gondola ends, block displays, mailer supports, prize contests etc. are carried out for our products to be more attractive
and competitive to consumers. The Group reported a loss of RM5.83 million in FYE2022 as compared to a loss of RM1.91 million, a year ago in
FYE2021. The loss reported in FYE2022 was mainly attributed to the Group recording a very much higher operating cost mainly
caused by rising price of raw materials and packing materials due to continuous increase in price of commodities
which are major cost components for our products. Following the implementation of the Minimum Wage Order 2022
effective 1 May 2022, the Group had to increase wages and benefits to attract and retain employees, which have
further contributed to increase in operating cost.
[MDA_P008]
HWA TAI INDUSTRIES BERHAD
ANNUAL
REPORT
PAGE
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS
In view of market competition and ever-growing demands from consumers, our Research and Development division
has continuously focused on product innovation, creativeness on developing healthier choices products for consumers,
market research in improving our current products to suit consumers preferences without compromising on quality.
We have been continuously expanding our customer network by penetration to new markets locally and internationally,
developing and launching new products and also improve our product quality and variety. In line with the new norm
and e-commerce phenomenon, the Group also is working on various online shopping initiatives to drive sales.
[MDA_P009]
Apart from the above, the Group has continuously invested in factory upgrading and machineries to improve the
production efficiency for cost savings. Our factory has been renovated and designed according to food manufacturing
standards in order to reduce the risk of contamination and facilitate the production of safe finished products. Old factory roof system is removed and reinstalled with new insulated roof system for better manufacturing &
warehousing environment. The project of conversion of LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) to Natural Gas, as a source
of burning energy for the production plant which will result in cost savings by approximately 50% was completed
in previous years. For this year as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our production facilities, we have recently
replaced one of our old ovens with a brand new oven. The new oven boasts several significant advantages over the
old one, including a higher oven output, enhanced hygiene measures, consistent baking profiles, and reduced energy
consumption. This upgrade will allow us to increase our efficiency, reduce our costs, and ultimately provide a better
product for our consumer.
[MDA_P010]
As a player in the food industry, the Group is exposed to the risk associated with product quality and standard as
product safety and quality are of paramount importance to the Group. The risk may have financial impact as well as
reputation impact. Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing, plant & machinery sanitisation
as well as employee personal hygiene to prevent contamination. Also the products traceability and compliance with
stringent quality system are in place too. Our business risk is mainly from potential labour shortages, low profit margin due to stiff competition, price fluctuations
of raw materials and changes in consumer demand. These risks may lead to cost increase which will affect our
profitability if such costs are not able to be passed on to our consumers. To mitigate these risks, our management
has taken steps such as remaining flexible in sourcing raw materials and packing materials from different suppliers
to ensure our Group is not overly dependent on a single supplier without compromising its product quality. Also, to
always update and acquire advanced machineries and improve plant automation to be less dependent on labour.
