document_id: MDA_7237_PWROOT_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 30, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2022
Power Root was similarly affected by these challenges as we faced labour shortages in the short term. However, the
Group as a whole responded with early proactive actions that helped mitigate the impact for FYE 2022 and we look
forward to a new and better business environment in the coming year. THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
As pandemic restrictions continue to ease, governments are opening up national borders and loosening travel restrictions. The rapid economic pick-up, though, has seen supply chains struggling to cope. High demand for raw materials has
caused pricing hikes amid scarcity, while logistics are scrambling to keep up with market movements. Against this backdrop, Power Root expects to build on what we achieved in FYE 2022. We have ingrained the Return on
Investment (“ROI”) culture throughout our organisation in the past few years, and continue to focus on growing revenues
with cost and control as the foundation of our growth. We have also improved communication across all functions with
the business increasingly utilising technology in making data-driven decisions.
[MDA_P004]
Technological
tools equipped the Group to track the volume and pattern of sales across regions and products. In turn, with a stronger
Commercial Finance team positioned to analyse in detail profitability by products, channels and customers, this led to
better analysis to find gaps and opportunities for sales and profitability. We also rolled out our handheld sales force reporting system which provides real-time distribution network status and
updates. The information includes data on outlet levels which allows for a quick response to market demand, and helps
us assess the implementation and effectiveness of our marketing 5Ps. Power Root was also prepared for the imposition of the sugar tax which was to be implemented on 1 April 2022. Although the Malaysian government has deferred the sugar tax implementation for the moment, our team is ready
for this eventuality. Should the sugar tax regime be implemented, Power Root will have an advantage in being able to
leverage on our previous experience from similar sugar tax roll-outs in the Middle East markets over the past two years
to mitigate its impact.
[MDA_P015]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2022
Alicafé
We also added Alicafé Tongkat Ali & Ginseng Kurma Madu to our Alicafé range in April 2021. This revolutionary energy
coffee mix provides extra energy and nutrition to consumers, combining the holistic benefits of Tongkat Ali & Ginseng
to strengthen the immune system with the goodness and deliciousness of Kurma Madu. EXPORTS
Our export business was still largely impacted by the pandemic with closed borders and dampened economic activity
throughout the world for much of FYE 2022. On the positive side, we have seen a momentum in recovery in the final
quarter of the financial year. With the China and Hong Kong governments pursuing zero-COVID goals, activities in these regions were muted with
sporadic strict movement restrictions despite early optimism. Online marketing and sales which had been expected to
thrive during this period of physical isolation were affected by the Chinese government’s move to control online activities
and platforms to ensure fairer pricing competition. This resulted in an uncertain online sales climate which was less
vibrant compared to the preceding years.
[MDA_P018]
The Group also extended our use of KOLs influencers such as
“Omar” and “Mom in Dubai” promoting Alitéa through their YouTube and Instagram channels respectively. In the KSA, due to the rise in the cost of raw materials and higher manufacturing costs, we started to increase the price
of our products from May 2022. As with our Malaysian domestic market, we expect to increase our prices gradually in
our MENA markets. To mitigate the impact of the KSA’s sugar tax, we have taken a creative approach in focusing our
marketing attention on box packages instead of pouch packages as the boxes, which come with fewer sachets, are
more budget-friendly for consumers at this time. We also focused on improving inventory management during the year. As countries open up, we plan to follow through on our MENA strategies and intensify our growth efforts in the region. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
cont’d
[MDA_P021]
While production and supply were
still vulnerable to stoppages due to sporadic positive cases along the supply line, these measures have minimised the
disruptions in areas where we are able to control. The Group also faced higher operational costs due to labour market shortages across industries and the resulting rise in
wages, as well as the implementation of the new minimum wages level policy. While Power Root faced price pressures
and availability issues in sourcing for raw materials, our team has managed to minimise its impact through a far-sighted
progressive purchasing strategy. FINANCIAL REVIEW
For the FYE 2022, the Group recorded revenue of RM347.9million, an increase of approximately 12.5% from the revenue
of RM309.2 million recorded in FYE 2021. This increase was due to higher local sales, particularly after the lifting of MCO 3.0, and the improved operational
efficiencies and capabilities as outlined above. Revenue (RM’million)
204.1
165.2
144.0
143.8
309.2
Local
Export
347.9
FYE 2021
FYE 2022
