document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 73, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
This transition, a well-
orchestrated plan over the past five years, culminated in 2024 with the critical milestone of moving to our Halal IR4.0-
enabled production centre. This move will accelerate our strategy to scale operations and innovations, reinforcing our
position as Malaysia’s leading dairy brand. Our transformation over six decades in Malaysia has been recognised by our many partners and stakeholders, who
trusted us and supported us in our commitment to Nourishing Our Nation. REPORT
DIRECTOR’S
MANAGING
The Yang Di-Pertuan Besar of Negeri Sembilan,
Tuanku Muhriz Tuanku Munawir (centre), was joined
by (from left) FrieslandCampina Chief Executive
Officer Jan Derck van Karnebeek, Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Bhd (DLMI) Managing Director Ramjeet
Kaur Virik, Senior State Executive Councillor YB
Datuk Seri Jalaluddin bin Alias, and ambassador to
the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Malaysia, H.E. Jacques Werner at the inauguration of DLMI@Enstek
on 30 May, 2024. This symbolic date also marked
the 61st Anniversary of DLMI’s incorporation, originally
known as Pacific Milk Industries (Malaya) Limited. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
[MDA_P003]
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
2024 was a historic milestone and a
year of massive transition for DLMI
as we fully moved to our new Halal
manufacturing facility DLMI@
Enstek, with double the capacity
and IR4.0 capabilities. The year
signalled our strong commitment
to Nourishing Our Nation with
improved nutritional content,
responsible business practices and
meaningful growth, championed
by our committed employees and
supportive stakeholders. Despite
the challenging operational
environment and the planned
transition, our focus on internal
cost optimisation, fit-for-purpose
organisation and governance,
helped us deliver positive
results in FY2024. As we move
forward, we remain steadfast
in our aspiration to produce
healthy, Halal dairy nutrition
in balance with the planet,
continuing to drive our purpose
of Nourishing Our Planet and
People in Every Stage of Life.
Section
[MDA_P004]
We are well-positioned to achieve our ambitions for 2030 and beyond, as we work to unlock the full potential of our
new state-of-the-art, IR4.0-enabled manufacturing facility. DLMI@Enstek will play a crucial role in strengthening our
commitment to: 1) Fostering long-term public-private partnerships to enhance Malaysia’s dairy sector, particularly in raw
milk production, and 2) Addressing the triple burden of malnutrition in Malaysia, especially among children under 12 years
old. Our strategic investment in DLMI@Enstek exemplifies our dedication to driving profits with a purpose. CHALLENGES THAT CONTINUE DUE TO EXTERNAL PRESSURES
We continued to experience volatility in both global and local markets, with fluctuating prices of dairy raw materials and
foreign exchange rates. This has increased the cost of doing business in an already challenging operating environment,
compounded by ever-evolving regulations and policies. Businesses locally and regionally continued to find opportunities
to innovate their business models, strengthen governance, build resilience and future-proof people and product solutions.
[MDA_P005]
At DLMI, our core strategy for managing external pressures is to prioritise prudence in managing our financial and resource
investments. This approach ensures we achieve adequate cost savings, explore alternative revenue-boosting measures,
and most importantly, maintain a motivated workforce. We continued to play a pivotal role in industry coalitions
such as MAREA and CAN, where we demonstrated
leadership in driving their respective agendas effectively. DLMI assumed the chair for MAREA and catalysed the
launch of Malaysia’s first DEI Guidelines in CAN. We will
continue to actively participate and collaborate with our
industry peers to shape future best practices and even
policies to raise the bar on sustainability performance. In line with our purpose of Nourishing Our Nation, DLMI has
partnered with the Petaling Jaya Parliamentary Office to
support a social enterprise project, the “Healthy Eating and
Nutrition Programme for Children” (Program Pemakanan
Sihat dan Nutrisi Kanak-Kanak).
[MDA_P006]
Supported by Allegra
Technologies Sdn Bhd, the initiative aims to benefit 100
children aged one to six at PPR Block 5 and 6 in Desa
Mentari Petaling Jaya by promoting healthy eating habits and
supporting growth and nutrition. The programme will utilise
artificial intelligence-powered vending machines to provide
daily Dutch Lady milk, ensuring consistent access to essential
nutrients and fostering better health outcomes. Initiatives like
this reinforce our commitment to delivering accessible,
affordable, safe, Halal and nutritious dairy to the nation. For more information on how we are aligning our performance
with our purpose, please refer to Sustainability Statement
on pages 60-108 of this Integrated Annual Report. With our seven key focus areas and sustainability roadmaps,
2024 saw us focus much of our efforts on building our
capabilities. Our differentiated approach integrates
sustainability into every function of the business, reflecting
our belief that sustainability is an essential part of our
operations.
