document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2021
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 98, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion
& Analysis
6 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Our Financial Performance
Continuing our trend of steady year-on-year growth, Group-wide revenue rose by 6.5% in FY2021. However, our net profit
decreased by 30.5% mainly due to weaker butter ratio during the year and one-off gain on the disposal of an associate
company in FY2020. Read more about our financial performance within the Financial Statements section of this report.
Read more: Financial Performance Review, page 40
Our Non-Financial Performance
In FY2021, we increased our annual cocoa grinding capacity by 20,000MT to a total of 277,000MT across our worldwide
production facilities. We were also crowned the Company of the Year Award in food manufacturing and were recognised
for our exemplary community care initiatives at the Sustainability and CSR Malaysia Awards.
RM3,923.3
million
14.86
sen
Revenue
Earnings
per share
RM196.8
million
RM1,342.3
million
Profit
before tax
Shareholders’
equity
RM154.8
million
0.92
times
Net profit
Net
gearing ratio
Snapshot of FY2021:
Financial and Non-Financial Performance Highlights
[MDA_P010]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 11
Corporate Principal Activities, Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and Market Positioning
Corporate Principal Activities
Our business is principally involved in the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients including cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come in
dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid form. Market Environment
FY2021 presented a challenging year for the Group,
as disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and
geopolitical tensions have led to uncertainty, global
inflation and supply chain disruptions. Even so, market demand during FY2021 was better than
FY2020 as economies gradually recovered from the impact
of COVID-19. Alongside the rapid rollout of COVID-19
vaccines in most countries and travel restrictions that are
gradually being lifted, there has been a surge in demand
for chocolate in the market in the United States1, and the
industry is adopting a cautiously optimistic outlook over
the medium-to-long-term.
[MDA_P011]
Nevertheless, our expansion plans represent both a risk and
an opportunity. While we stand to benefit from reduced
supply chain risks, differences in market conditions, social
and cultural practices, and business processes will pose
challenges that will require coordinated and collective
effort to overcome. Competitive Landscape
Even with the recent expansion activities, as the world’s
fourth largest cocoa grinding company, we continue to
face stiff competition from major international companies
that boast wider market reach, stronger influence
and greater financial resources. Furthermore, these
international companies usually operate end-to-end,
vertically integrated supply chains, thereby reducing their
exposure to risks derived from logistical challenges and
weakened market demand. In addressing this issue, our new cocoa processing facility in
Ivory Coast, expected to commence production activities
in mid-2022, will have a transformative effect.
[MDA_P033]
However, we believe that our new
cocoa grinding facility in Ivory Coast,
which will provide us with direct
access to cocoa in the world’s largest
cocoa producing country, will prove
a game changer in improving the
supply availability for the Group and
supporting
increasing
customer
orders from mid-2022 onwards. Our global expansion activities across
Germany, the United Kingdom and
Ivory Coast have also raised our
cognisance towards the potential
geographical risks that may arise
when entering new markets, such
as differences in market conditions,
social and cultural practices, as well
as business processes. One of the
strategies we have employed to
address this is to nurture workforces
with the right balance of local hires
and experienced personnel from
Malaysia and Indonesia to lead the set
up. We will leverage on the wealth of
experience we gained from our past
expansions into Indonesia and the
United States to guide our practices
and ensure a smooth integration of
operations. Most of our trades are transacted in
United States Dollar (“USD”) and Great
Britain Pound (“GBP”) but our reporting
currency is in Malaysian Ringgit (“RM”).
[MDA_P035]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 19
Outlook
While countries around the world
have loosened pandemic restrictions
and re-opened borders, there remain
market uncertainties fuelled by the
potential reemergence of stronger
variants. At the same time, the
ongoing conflict between Russia and
Ukraine has the potential to drastically
influence oil prices and exert upward
pressure on shipping rates. Nevertheless,
is
generally
forecasted to be a year of recovery
as governments worldwide loosen
COVID-19 restrictions and move to
fully reopen borders and economies. The International Monetary Fund has
forecasted global Gross Domestic
Product (“GDP”) growth of 4.4% in
2022, and we are further optimistic
that the recommencement of travel
activities will also serve to boost
demand in the cocoa sector next year. Our recent expansion into Europe -
known for its high levels of chocolate
consumption - has placed us in a
prime position to capitalise on the
strong demand.
