document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Overall, solid
growth in combination with our disciplined approach to cost management
and the partial mitigation of the impact from commodity headwinds allowed
us to record a recovery in profit after tax of RM569.8 million for the year, up
by 3.1%, while profit before tax stood at RM751.8 million (+3.7% increase). BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
In navigating through the second year of the pandemic, we stayed focused
in protecting the business core, once again ensuring flawless commercial
execution across all channels and retailers. Indeed, through our sales and distributor network which allows us to cover
the full spectrum of channels and geographies across the country, our highly
capable and committed sales team was able to ensure the presence in-
store of all our brands, serving the needs of our customers and consumers. Amidst the many restrictions during the pandemic, this was key to ensure
the availability of our products across the nation.
[MDA_P003]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Management Discussion and Analysis
Likewise, our industrial sites and supply chain operations allowed us to fulfil the solid demand for our brands, even in the most difficult moments of the lockdown, when only 60% of the
workforce was allowed to operate on-site. This constrained operational environment makes even more remarkable the progress achieved in executing major investments across our various sites
during 2021, reinforcing the foundations and our footprint to be able to support growth through the coming years. As we are now watching the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel, I would want to acknowledge the impressive participation of all our teams in the National Vaccination programme, as well
as our effort to encourage Malaysians to get vaccinated through our national communications campaign incentivising Malaysians to register for vaccination and offering e-wallet vouchers worth
a total of RM500,000 as rewards. We had also the privilege of supporting frontliners by providing meals at selected Vaccination Administration Centres.
[MDA_P004]
In addition to focused execution to ensure the steady supply of our core products, we also paid close attention to emerging consumer trends, and this allowed us to introduce a stream of new
products that contributed incremental sales and opened new avenues to ensure future growth. You can see many of them referred to in the individual business review section later in this report. Allow me to refer in particular to the new platforms we have launched to address the growing interest in healthier and more sustainable lifestyles, especially important for the new generations. This realisation is behind our entrance into the plant-based space, with the opening of our plant-based meal solution manufacturing facility in Shah Alam in March 2021, and the launch of
our HARVEST GOURMET brand. As Nestlé’s first facility of its kind in the ASEAN region, this enables us to capture, under the Harvest Gourmet brand, the rising demand for plant-based foods
in both our domestic and export markets, supplying Malaysian-made, high-quality, great-tasting Halal-certified plant-based meals.
[MDA_P009]
With a view towards building up Malaysia’s grassroots football ecosystem, we
collaborated with the Football Association of Malaysia, embarking on a five-year partnership
to nurture a new generation of football stars, and kicked off the MILO All Star Challenge to
showcase talented young players. “Ultimately, it is about delivering better-for-you products that play a positive role in the nutrition of Malaysian families and continue to deliver
consistently the high quality and 100% halal commitment behind each and everyone of our products. That’s what Nestlé, the Good Food, Good Life
company, is about: a constant strive to enhance the lives of Malaysians through products that support them in their health and wellness journey.”
[MDA_P010]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Management Discussion and Analysis
We are deeply committed to shaping a more diverse and inclusive working environment and we are proud of the high level of participation of female colleagues in leadership roles across the
organisation. In 2021, we focused our actions to improve the more male-dominated areas such as Sales and Operations, starting from increased recruitment with women comprising 34% of new hires in our
Sales, Technical and Supply Chain divisions; as well as making available activities such as a forklift driving training academy specifically targeted to provide our interested female colleagues the
necessary skills and certification needed to take on these roles. Supporting gender balance is also about removing barriers and in 2021, we engaged three daycare centres in close proximity to our Head Office, while enhancing our Parental Support Policy
with increased paid maternity and paternity leave, primary caregiver leave and child adoption leave.
