document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 77, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
“The cover of our Annual
Report 2020 is symbolic of our
organisation’s collective sentiment
during the difficult time, it
represents our team spirit to keep
the lights shining in the
darkness, and it reflects
our commitment as One
Strong Winning Team to
stay true to our purpose:
Brewing a Sustainable
Future for Our People,
Business and Planet.”
Roland Bala
Managing Director
One Strong
Winning Team
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 | HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
2020 was a difficult year. The Covid-19 global pandemic brought the
economy to a standstill. Faced with the immediate need to bring the
contagion under control, the Malaysian Government introduced the
Movement Control Order (MCO) in March 2020, allowing only essential
sectors of the economy to continue operating, whilst putting strict
restrictions on all other activities, including social activities. Looking back at the 46 consecutive days from 18 March to 3
May 2020, it can be said that those were the darkest days of our
Company’s history in Malaysia as we had to suspend operations
at our Sungei Way Brewery during this period to comply with
the MCO. The cover of our Annual Report 2020 is symbolic of
our organisation’s collective sentiment during the difficult time,
it represents our team spirit to keep the lights shining in the
darkness, and it reflects our commitment as One Strong Winning
Team to stay true to our purpose: Brewing a Sustainable Future
for our People, Business and Planet.
[MDA_P007]
Meanwhile, we had
to adapt to the new realities that Covid-19 had forced upon
society. Consumption drivers such as dining out and having
social gatherings at restaurants, pubs and bars were curtailed
significantly by various restrictions. Indeed, certain outlets
with liquor licenses such as pubs and entertainment outlets
were prohibited from operating. Unfortunately, the perpetual
restrictions have significantly impacted the economy and
consumer sentiment. Local businesses who depend on beer as a
source of revenue have struggled to survive. The Confederation
of Malaysian Brewers Berhad estimates that around 3,800 of
these outlets have remain closed during the year with some
38,000 jobs at risk. During this challenging year, it was important to remain
connected with our customers and consumers. We leveraged the
power of our brands to help re-connect consumers to businesses. Through our Tiger Save Our Street Food campaign, we channeled
RM1.5 million to help restaurants, food courts and street food
vendors who were affected directly by the lockdown. During the
campaign, supporters could purchase a voucher for a big bottle
of Tiger or Tiger Crystal.
[MDA_P012]
Based on our FY2020 results, the Board has proposed a first
and final single tier dividend of 51 sen per stock unit. Subject to
approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, the single tier dividend will be paid on 28 July 2021 to
shareholders registered at the closing of business on 30 June
2021. The dividend payout ratio for the year is approximately
100% of the Group’s profit after tax. PEOPLE & PLANET
Despite the challenges, the results of our performance was
attributed to the hard work and commitment of our employees. During the year, we kept people connected through regular
internal communications including Town Halls and Virtual
Drinks. Employee engagement initiatives were supported with
the use of digital platforms such as Workplace and Microsoft
Teams, enabling productivity whilst ensuring our people stayed
connected while being apart. Our response to the Covid-19
crisis and actions taken to safeguard the health of our people
was positively received. 88% of employees surveyed rated these
initiatives favourably. In 2020, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s employee
engagement score improved to 82% whilst performance
enablement improved to 78%.
[MDA_P016]
As part of these programmes, consumers are
educated on the importance of moderation and are encouraged
to use alternative modes of transportation including e-hailing to
go home safely. The Heineken® brand has also activated the “When You Drive,
Never Drink” platform in Malaysia, investing more than RM2
million since it was launched in 2016. Leveraging on the global
partnership with F1®, Heineken® has been amplifying the simple
but clear message urging consumers not to drive when they have
consumed any amount of alcohol. Heineken® has communicated
the message through various brand communications and
Type of Risk
Actions to Mitigate Risk
Regulatory & Tax
We continue to engage the Government on key issues affecting the industry, in support of the
country’s growth ambition as well as recovery from the significant economic impact attributed to the
ongoing global pandemic. Illicit Alcohol
We fully support the Government’s efforts in eradicating illicit alcohol, which represents a loss of
revenue to both Government and Industry.
