document_id: MDA_6203_KHEESAN_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 38, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P028]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The Group sells its products via two distribution channels, through wholesale and modern distribution channels. In an effort to achieve higher sales volume, the Group distributes its products via both the wholesale and modern
distribution channels in Malaysia. However, for export sales, the distribution channels vary from country to country. For
example, in Singapore and Hong Kong, only the modern distribution channel will be employed whilst the wholesale
channel will be more prevalent in Indonesia and Vietnam. Distribution Channels
The Group’s production activities are labour intensive in nature, thus it is prone to labour shortages. By that same
breadth, it is also subject to wage fluctuations as witnessed by the government’s amendments of Levy Payment
Structure on foreign workers and the increase in minimum wage level in peninsular Malaysia. In an effort to reduce
the over-reliance to the labour issues, the Group will continue to invest in automating the plants. Labour shortages and wage fluctuations
The fluctuation of raw materials’ prices has been an inherent issue for the Group, as well as its competitors in the
similar industry.
[MDA_P029]
As an example, sugar price fluctuations may severely impact the Group as it is a major component
of the Group’s products. Realising this issue, the Group has taken necessary steps to reduce the risk of constant price
fluctuations by engaging with its various raw material suppliers to strive for favourable longer-term supply
arrangements. At the same time, the Group are constantly exploring with new suppliers to ensure that it is not overly
dependent and reliant on its current key suppliers. The Group shall ensure that these initiatives are carried out without
compromising its products quality. Fluctuation of raw materials price
Significant fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rate will impact the Group’s cash flow movement and
profitability as most of its input materials are sourced from abroad. In addition, the Group also relies on its export sales
which are also subject to changes in currency exchange rates. The Group shall manage currency exchange rate
fluctuations by continuing to monitor global currency movements and, if necessary, take proactive hedging positions
to mitigate such risk.
[MDA_P030]
Fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rate
The Group is aware of the continuous shift in consumers’ taste preferences. As such it is constantly introducing
innovative new flavours for its existing product range, as well as new products and product packaging to the market. Changes in consumers’ preferences
The Group recognises that it is crucial to ensure its food-base products are high of quality. Deterioration in quality may
bring severe negative image to the Group’s product brands and create harmful long-term impact to the Group’s
reputation. To mitigate such occurrences, the Group has implemented strict quality management systems and
quality assurance processes to ensure that there is no deterioration in product quality. Furthermore, the group is
certified as an ISO and Halal candy and wafer manufacturer. Product quality
The Group is exposed to interest rate and liquidity risk as it has considerably high bank borrowings. The board is
cognisant of this inherent risk and shall monitor its cashflow position diligently while exploring alternate avenues of
funding.
[MDA_P031]
The Group may consider raising funds through the capital markets when the stock market condition is much
more favourable. This will help mitigate over-reliance on banking facility which is prone to interest rate movements. Interest rate & liquidity risk
The Group faces several risk factors that may affect the Group’s profitability. Those risks include the following:
5. BUSINESS RISK OVERVIEW
$118$/5(3257 2023 
5HJLVWUDWLRQ1R
[MDA_P034]
The Malaysian economy was hit due to the covid pandemic over the last two years and the Group was not spared. However, the government has managed this pandemic well and Malaysia as a whole has achieved over 80%
immunisation of the adult population and as such there has been loosening on social movement. This re-opening of
the economy has helped the recovery process of the Group, hence the management is optimistic that this would
translate to the recovery in the Group’s revenue in time. The Group will continue its efforts to improve operational
efficiency to meet the current challenging operating environment in year 2023 due to uncertainties of raw materials
costs and labour shortage and its related costs. The Group is confident to achieve positive operating results after the completion of proposed business regularization
plan and the proposed scheme of arrangement which has been submitted to Bursa Securities on 18 July 2023.
[MDA_P035]
The Group is expanding its overseas market and had entered into a Strategic Cooperation Agreement with Wellspire
Global Trading Sdn Bhd as the sole and exclusive distributor of the “Khee San” brand products in Thailand for a period
of three (3) years from 23 August 2023 to 22 August 2026. The Group is weighing all options and will decide on the best course of action moving forward and will act in the best
interest of its shareholders. 6. OUTLOOK OF FUTURE PROPECTS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
$118$/5(3257 2023
