document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2020
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 77, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
We are the leading brewer in the country, with a portfolio of
iconic international and local brands that are supported by
consumers who share the same Passion for Quality that is a
key HEINEKEN value. In 2020, we had to respond to the drastic
changes in the external environment caused by the global
pandemic and nationwide lockdown, which had a significant
impact on our industry and business. In navigating the crisis, our
key priorities were (1) safeguarding the health and safety of our
people, (2) adapting the business to the new landscape, and (3)
prudent cost control to preserve cash. Our Key Priorities
safeguarding the
health and safety
of our people
adapting the
business to the
new landscape
prudent cost
control to
preserve cash
PROTECTING THE HEALTH & SAFETY OF OUR PEOPLE
To ensure the health and safety of our employees, we
instructed all staff to work from home immediately upon the
commencement of the MCO. When we were allowed to resume
operations on 3 May 2020, only essential employees were asked
to return to our brewery whilst non-essential staff continued
working from home.
[MDA_P006]
Who We Are
Our Strategies
Performance
Review
Growing
Our People
Protecting
Our Planet
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers
And Others
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD | ANNUAL REPORT 2020
of the proactive interventions that we have undertaken. As
such, we aim to continue maintaining a high level of discipline
in enforcing the health-related SOPs and continually remind
employees about the necessary health and safety precautions. STAYING CONNECTED WITH CUSTOMERS & CONSUMERS
We started 2020 with the Chinese New Year festive campaign
led by Tiger Beer, Malaysia’s No. 1 Beer. The year of the rat
coincided with Tiger’s 88th anniversary and we went all out
to give consumers an exciting festive season. Aptly named
‘Double The Huat’ in honour of the double celebration, we ran
a successful series of promotions, contests and activations on
a grander scale than ever before across all channels, including
restaurants, coffee shops, supermarkets, convenience stores and
e-Commerce. However, due to the pandemic and nationwide lockdown,
most of the commercial plans for the rest of the year were
affected. For example, the annual Guinness St. Patrick’s
celebration in March had to be canceled.
[MDA_P007]
Meanwhile, we had
to adapt to the new realities that Covid-19 had forced upon
society. Consumption drivers such as dining out and having
social gatherings at restaurants, pubs and bars were curtailed
significantly by various restrictions. Indeed, certain outlets
with liquor licenses such as pubs and entertainment outlets
were prohibited from operating. Unfortunately, the perpetual
restrictions have significantly impacted the economy and
consumer sentiment. Local businesses who depend on beer as a
source of revenue have struggled to survive. The Confederation
of Malaysian Brewers Berhad estimates that around 3,800 of
these outlets have remain closed during the year with some
38,000 jobs at risk. During this challenging year, it was important to remain
connected with our customers and consumers. We leveraged the
power of our brands to help re-connect consumers to businesses. Through our Tiger Save Our Street Food campaign, we channeled
RM1.5 million to help restaurants, food courts and street food
vendors who were affected directly by the lockdown. During the
campaign, supporters could purchase a voucher for a big bottle
of Tiger or Tiger Crystal.
[MDA_P008]
Proceeds from the sale of the vouchers
were then fully donated to participating outlets, on top of the
retail price of the beer that the outlets also receive. We are proud
that this campaign brought consumers together to support their
favourite restaurants and coffee shops, whilst demonstrating
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s commitment to navigate the storm
together with our business partners. As mentioned earlier, most pubs and entertainment outlets were
not allowed to operate. In view of this, we launched the Raise
Our Bars initiative, with a commitment of RM1 million to help
affected pubs and bars during the crisis. The Heineken® brand
also launched its Socialise Responsibly campaign, giving a fresh
perspective to social distancing in bars, educating consumers
that although new bar experiences can be awkward, it is
important to respect the rules of social distancing. In a year when staying at home became the norm, we further
engaged consumers with exciting campaigns that cut through
the monotony due to the lack of social interactions.
[MDA_P010]
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 | HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
OUR PERFORMANCE
Group revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December 2020
declined by 24%, impacted by the implementation of the first
MCO during which the brewery suspended its operations. Despite
the gradual recovery of economic activities after the second
quarter, the Group’s business performance particularly in the on-
trade channel continued to be affected. With the slowdown in the on-trade channel, we refocused our
efforts to win in the off-trade channels including supermarkets
and convenience stores, which were allowed to continue
operating throughout the lockdowns. The rapid adoption
of e-commerce in Malaysia was further accelerated by the
pandemic, with many consumers switching from visiting physical
stores to doing their shopping online. HEINEKEN Malaysia’s
official e-commerce platform, Drinkies.my, grew its total number
of orders by 93% vs 2019. The on-demand delivery service is
currently available in major cities of Peninsular Malaysia.
