document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2020
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 47, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
HELLO EVERYONE. I HOPE THIS NOTE FINDS ALL OF YOU
IN GOOD STEAD AND EXCELLENT HEALTH. STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director of Carlsberg Malaysia Group
The year 2020, long anticipated as a
historic milestone for Malaysia and a
personally significant one for me as
my first full year leading the Carlsberg
Malaysia Group, suffered an unforeseen
reverse due to COVID-19, which as we
know is now a pandemic that engulfed
the entire world. Our company was not spared the fallout. With
the
first
confirmed
COVID-19
confirmed case reported in Singapore on
23 January 2020, we set in motion our
commercial and operational plans for
business continuity amid highly uncertain
prospects. Pre-emptively, we began with
tightening our health and safety practices
to safeguard against what was already
becoming a huge threat here and abroad. Two months later, the World Health
Organisation (WHO) declared a global
pandemic, with governments responding
by sending a third of the world’s
population into lockdown. In Malaysia, the
Movement Control Order (MCO) began
on 18 March 2020 while in Singapore, a
‘circuit breaker’ (CB) was implemented on
7 April 2020.
[MDA_P002]
We essentially suspended
production and distribution in compliance
with unprecedented restrictions, which led
to business disruption. From
the
beginning,
we
began
engaging with our stakeholders in
earnest, communicating our efforts
to contain the virus and offering
support and reassurance to our
employees, business partners and
customers. Our community efforts
remained, with our Safer Schools
campaign a new step-up in
response to public fears over the
outbreak of COVID-19. Our brewery was finally allowed to
resume full operations following the
start of the Conditional MCO (CMCO)
period in Malaysia on 4 May 2020. Thankfully,
from
May
onwards,
we saw a gradual lifting of social
distancing measures in Malaysia,
though not all on-trade businesses
such as entertainment outlets were
allowed to operate. In Singapore, the
government announced on 19 June
2020 that on-trade outlets were only
to re-open partially under ‘new normal’
guidelines.
[MDA_P005]
I am proud to say that even in the darkest days of lockdown,
we kept our priorities right, with safety and wellbeing at the top. We developed stringent health and safety standard operating
procedures (SOPs), including suspending brewery visits and on-
ground events in Malaysia. Staff not essential to the running of the brewery were asked to
work from home, while those working from the brewery adhered
to a strict segregation of workforce during shift handovers. We
also implemented a split team rotation on alternate days when
employees returned to the office during the Recovery MCO
(RMCO) period in Malaysia. In Malaysia, we have implemented mandatory swab tests since
January 2021, fully sponsored by the company and in support
of government efforts to curb the rising rate of infections for
employees required to work at our Shah Alam headquarters or
in the field. These difficulties saw us band together in ways we never thought
possible.
[MDA_P009]
Statements from Our Leadership
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OUR TWO ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
CREATE A
WINNING CULTURE
DEFEND OUR LICENSE
TO OPERATE
‘Grow in Mainstream’ with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner
and Carlsberg Smooth Draught
‘Win in Each Store’ with better in-store execution,
a step-up from the previous ‘Win in Store’
‘Fund the Journey’ by delivering efficiencies in
Operating Expenses, Value Management and the
Supply Chain
‘Go Big in Premium’ with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
Somersby cider, Asahi Super Dry and Connor’s
Stout Porter
‘Innovate with Digital’ replacing ‘Build New
Revenue Streams’
Achieve ‘Organic Growth in Operating Profit’
Deliver ‘High and Stable Dividend Yield’ for
shareholders
Amidst all the uncertainties, whether from COVID-19, domestic and global macroeconomics or socio-politics, we remained agile and
disciplined in implementing our SAIL’22 priorities, especially on our Fund the Journey initiatives and an ever-increased focus on cost
control, embedded in our Malaysia and Singapore operations.
[MDA_P024]
New Ways of Working with
Technology
Physical meetings and interstate travel
became a thing of the past, overtaken
by
virtual
platforms
like
Microsoft
Teams swiftly implemented via internal
training and usage, enabling us to remain
productive while staying safely socially
distant. We deployed a number of digital
measures to ensure our people remained
in constant contact while management
issued frequent, detailed and informative
company-wide updates to keep us all
abreast
of
company
developments
throughout the movement control in
Malaysia and circuit breaker in Singapore. This included simple Group-wide chat
app updates, productivity suites and
e-learning and knowledge sharing and
crisis management portals to cater to
diverse audiences and business objectives. Our strategic priority of ‘Build New Revenue
Streams’, which had a focus on innovation,
has been distilled further to ‘Innovate
with Digital’ in 2020 in recognition of the
growing role digitalisation plays in our
commercial efforts. Somersby Hard Seltzer is an alcoholic
sparkling water that contains 4.5 per
cent alcohol by volume (ABV) content.
