document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 47, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
We essentially suspended
production and distribution in compliance
with unprecedented restrictions, which led
to business disruption. From
the
beginning,
we
began
engaging with our stakeholders in
earnest, communicating our efforts
to contain the virus and offering
support and reassurance to our
employees, business partners and
customers. Our community efforts
remained, with our Safer Schools
campaign a new step-up in
response to public fears over the
outbreak of COVID-19. Our brewery was finally allowed to
resume full operations following the
start of the Conditional MCO (CMCO)
period in Malaysia on 4 May 2020. Thankfully,
from
May
onwards,
we saw a gradual lifting of social
distancing measures in Malaysia,
though not all on-trade businesses
such as entertainment outlets were
allowed to operate. In Singapore, the
government announced on 19 June
2020 that on-trade outlets were only
to re-open partially under ‘new normal’
guidelines.
[MDA_P008]
In 2020, SAIL’22 took on an overarching theme of ‘Navigating the Storm’ in recognition of the Group’s COVID-19 response measures
necessary for business continuity and sustainability.
[MDA_P009]
Statements from Our Leadership
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OUR TWO ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
CREATE A
WINNING CULTURE
DEFEND OUR LICENSE
TO OPERATE
‘Grow in Mainstream’ with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner
and Carlsberg Smooth Draught
‘Win in Each Store’ with better in-store execution,
a step-up from the previous ‘Win in Store’
‘Fund the Journey’ by delivering efficiencies in
Operating Expenses, Value Management and the
Supply Chain
‘Go Big in Premium’ with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
Somersby cider, Asahi Super Dry and Connor’s
Stout Porter
‘Innovate with Digital’ replacing ‘Build New
Revenue Streams’
Achieve ‘Organic Growth in Operating Profit’
Deliver ‘High and Stable Dividend Yield’ for
shareholders
Amidst all the uncertainties, whether from COVID-19, domestic and global macroeconomics or socio-politics, we remained agile and
disciplined in implementing our SAIL’22 priorities, especially on our Fund the Journey initiatives and an ever-increased focus on cost
control, embedded in our Malaysia and Singapore operations.
[MDA_P022]
Statements from Our Leadership
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
AND MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Spurred on by the pandemic, we embraced
digital at a swift pace, successfully
repositioning our brand campaigns for
both on- and off-trade in response to the
new norms. In Malaysia, we amplified our off-trade
activities with consumer promotions while
activating all our national campaign and
consumer promotions on our e-commerce
partners’ platforms Shopee and Lazada,
where we established official stores in
2020. We increased our focus on social media
engagement to create more traffic to
e-commerce platforms, in sampling and
via virtual events such as 1664’s ‘Share
Good Taste with a Twist’ launch and the
Connor’s Perfect Pour Battle. Brand innovations continue to play
an important role through packaging,
serving and liquid improvement, but with
an added digital dimension such as that
seen through Adopt a Keg’s novel way of
consumer and customer engagement via
an online platform.
[MDA_P025]
Each 330ml serving contains not more
than 99 calories and only two grams
of carbohydrates, resulting in no heavy
aftertaste compared to other alcoholic
alternatives. Carlsberg
Singapore
also
welcomed
the latest member of its Somersby
portfolio with a limited-edition Somersby
Watermelon cider launched in June and
became the first market in Asia to do so. Due to fantastic consumer response, we
ride on its success and have just launched
Watermelon variant for consumers in
Malaysia in March this year. In Malaysia, the cider brand celebrated
Apple Day in October with a special
three-day promotion on four-can packs
of
Somersby
Apple,
Blackberry
or
Elderflower
Lime,
while
brightening
up
stay-at-home
drinking
occasions
with limited-edition Somersby Shooter
& Ladder game sets and exclusive
Somersby Cocktail Kits with suggested
cocktail recipes. Somerita, a fun drinking ritual of a
Somersby bottle served upside down
over crushed ice, made its return at more
than 150 selected bistros and restaurants
across Malaysia. INNOVATE WITH DIGITAL
[MDA_P028]
In addition, the Group has also proposed
a FINAL single tier dividend of 30 sen per
ordinary share, subject to the shareholders’
approval at the forthcoming 51st Annual
General Meeting. If approved, the total dividends declared for
FY20 would amount to 40 sen per ordinary
share, equivalent to a total payment of
RM122.3 million comprising 75.4% of total
Group net profit for FY20. Given the unprecedented impact, uncertainty
and volatility of the pandemic, the Board
suspended quarterly dividend payments
for the financial year ending 31 December
2020 (FY20). This difficult decision was made to preserve
cash and liquidity, striking a balance
between our company’s long-term health
versus our track record of delivering value
to shareholders. With any recovery expected to be slow
and bumpy, we decided to take a prudent
approach to conserve cash and protect the
business. DIVIDENDS AND
SHAREHOLDER VALUE
Revenue (RM million)
Earnings per Ordinary Share (sen)
Group Net Profit (RM million)
1,982.3
2,256.6
1,785.0
277.2
291.0
162.2
Return on Shareholders’ Fund (%)
90.7
95.2
53.0
122.5
189.2
105.1
