document_id: MDA_7216_KAWAN_2022
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 30, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Dear Shareholders,
I am proud that Kawan has a team with great
people who possess strength and resilience
to overcome the tough challenges over
the year. Together, we have faced difficult
periods and emerged stronger. I have full
confidence that we will continue to rise
to the occasion and navigate through
any future obstacles with determination
and excellence.
Executive Chairman
Gan Thiam Chai
Profit Before Taxation
RM40.1 Mil
2021: RM36.7 million
Profit After Taxation
2021: RM31.8 million
RM38.5 Mil
[MDA_P002]
KAWANFOOD.COM
Kawan At A
Glance
This is
Kawan Food Berhad
Our Strategic
Review
Our Commitment To Good
Corporate Governance
Financial
Statements
Other
Information
Management Discussion & Analysis
These broad events underpinned a year characterised by a
volatile labour market, an energy crisis and disrupted supply
chains which subsequently led to inflation rates rising to
multi-decade highs. The response by central banks to rapidly
hike interest rates in a bid to cool inflation has dampened
the economic outlook and consumer sentiment. As a result,
consumers have been tightening their belts and purchasing
fewer products due to the cost-of-living crisis which has led
to an increase in the consumption of cheaper products. While it was certainly a challenging year, we were able to
navigate the need to balance affordable prices for consumers
while securing raw materials supply and protecting our
businesses. We adjusted our prices carefully and responsibly
to recover our increased costs, doing so without damaging key
relationships.
[MDA_P003]
We also worked closely with our customers and
suppliers to maintain our service levels, overcoming supply
chain deficiencies, unprecedented inflation on input costs and
labour supply challenges. We are grateful for the hard work
and commitment of our employees and management during
this challenging period as well as the continued support of
our customers and suppliers in navigating these headwinds. There is still a lot of work to be done but thanks to the skills and
work of our people, we are making good progress. In FY2022, our revenue increased by 16.4% to RM293.2 million
from RM251.8 million in FY2021, primarily driven by higher
average selling prices. Profit before tax (“PBT”) increased
from RM36.7 million in FY2021 to RM40.1 million in FY2022. However, the higher input costs put our margins under
pressure despite efforts to improve internal efficiencies and
implementing cost saving measures. Consequently, our
PBT margin decreased slightly to 13.7% in FY2022 from 14.6%
in FY2021. We have also absorbed high input cost inflation,
mainly in the prices of raw materials, wages and other key
costs, but we have nevertheless restricted price increases
even though it impacts our margin.
[MDA_P011]
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD
The Board and Management of Kawan continued to actively monitor risks that may potentially impact the performance
of the Group as part of our robust risk management and internal control measures. The Audit Committee (“AC”) has met
four (4) times during the year under review to deliberate on the Group’s risk management agenda. The following table highlights the key focus areas of their deliberations in FY2022 regarding risks arising from our operating
environment, its potential implications and the corresponding mitigation measures implemented:
RISING RAW MATERIAL COSTS AND INFLATION (High)
Description of its Implication
Mitigation Measures
Supply chain disruption caused by
political instabilities, civil unrest
and other remained challenging
that continue to give rise to higher
operational costs leading to rising
inflation.
[MDA_P013]
• Kawan has rolled out our sustainability roadmap outlining our
sustainability strategy for the period 2022 – 2030
• The Executive Director of Marketing & Sustainability leads the execution
of the sustainability strategies through various sustainability initiatives
under our sustainability framework
POST PANDEMIC (High)
Description of its Implication
Mitigation Measures
Macro uncertainty driven by post
COVID 19 pandemic, political crisis, forex
fluctuations and inflation. Economy
recovery was expected in 2022 as the
pandemic subsided with foodservice
growth driven by changing lifestyles. However, the Company faced aggressive
expansion by competitors and intense
price competition work closely with them
consumer purchasing power. • Remained vigilant in monitoring our cash flow and financial position for
continued stability and growth
• Focused on continued performance growth on revenue and PBT and
capturing new growth from new products and geographical expansion.
[MDA_P016]
A detailed explanation of Kawan’s risk management approach and internal control activities can be found in the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 89 to 95 of this report. Monitored impact of post pandemic factors
on employee safety, business continuity,
supply chain, impact on growth, productivity,
operations, service delivery and financial
resilience;
Reviewed top risks in terms of risk trend,
the likelihood of their occurrence, potential
impact and progress of mitigation action;
Continuously monitored the effectiveness of
the measures taken by the Group;
Reviewed key updates in relation to business
continuity that were provided by Management;
Reviewed key strategic, financial, regulatory,
operational risk and actions based on the
external assessments of the risk register and
internal audit findings.
