[TITLE]
NESTLE’S ‘SALARY FOR LIFE’ CONTEST RETURNS

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2024-04-25
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2024/04/25/nestles-salary-for-life-contest-returns
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] AMID the unprecedented challenges posed by the onset of the global pandemic in 2020, Nestle Malaysia Berhad (Nestle) launched its ‘Salary for Life’ campaign. This marked the company’s largest ever consumer contest, offering Malaysians the opportunity to dream big while giving back to their communities. In addition to rewarding the campaign finalists, Nestle also made one-off donations to 17 charities, each chosen by the finalists. This provided many of them with a lifeline during a critical time.

[NEWS_P002] Elinor expressed gratitude for Nestle’s timely donation that allowed the charity to distribute hot meals to those in need and alleviate financial strains. Impactful donations Among the charities, Pertubuhan Tindakan Wanita Islam (PERTIWI), chosen by one of the grand prize winners, received a contribution of RM72,000. Sharifah credits the donation for enabling crucial mental health support, provision of educational tools and basic care supplies to ease the burden of B40 families.

[NEWS_P003] PERTIWI’s honorary treasurer Elinor Kamalul Azmi recalls the positive impact, “Nestle Malaysia’s timely contribution enabled us to distribute over 14,000 hot meals to feed the urban poor and homeless that were struggling during the height of the pandemic. “This not only filled empty stomachs but also helped alleviate financial strains, allowing disadvantaged families to focus their resources on other essentials like milk and diapers for their children.” Meanwhile, IDEAS Autism Centre and Kasih Hospice Care Society each received RM36,000.

[NEWS_P004] These funds were utilised to ensure that their charitable services could continue during the disruptions caused by the pandemic. IDEAS Autism Centre principal and manager Sharifah Salleh said, “The contribution facilitated much-needed therapy sessions, online mental health support for both parents and children with autism, and provision of educational tools for tailored home learning children programmes. “Additionally, the funds were also utilised to procure food supplies and distribute health products to ease the burden of B40 families.” Kasih Hospice Care Society’s general manager Teo Shen Wei further shared that, “The funds were specifically allocated to support the salary payment of our nurses.

[NEWS_P005] Teo highlights Nestle’s support, enables hospice care during the pandemic.“This financial support was crucial in allowing our medical team to provide essential hospice care to patients and their families, especially when in-person visits were restricted.” The 2020 ‘Salary for Life’ initiative also benefitted other notable charities, including Food Aid Foundation, Global Peace Mission Malaysia, Kechara Soup Kitchen, Orphan Care, Taiwan Buddhist Tzu-Chi Foundation, Yayasan Hak Kanak-Kanak, Rumah Kita, Dhrra Malaysia, Yayasan Orang Buta Malaysia, Shelter Home for Children, Persatuan Kebajikan Amal Da Ai Malaysia, Global Peace Foundation, Yayasan Chow Kit and Yayasan Amal Malaysia.

[NEWS_P006] Each of these organisations plays a pivotal role in their communities by addressing various needs from food security to healthcare, education and support for the disadvantaged. Nestle Malaysia Berhad chief executive officer Juan Aranols comments on the company’s continuous efforts to make a positive and meaningful difference for the community. “Our ‘Salary for Life’ campaign is more than just a contest. It reflects our commitment to uplift the lives of Malaysians.

[NEWS_P007] Elinor expressed gratitude for Nestle’s timely donations.“We are honoured to be able to do our small part in supporting these 17 charities in their commendable efforts to provide relief and hope to those in need during such challenging times. “We look forward to an even more impactful experience as we bring back the campaign this year.” ‘Salary for life’ 2024 contest Stay tuned for a new chapter of returning Nestle Malaysia’s ‘Salary For Life’ 2024 contest.

[NEWS_P008] This will be a chance of offering more Malaysians the opportunity to realise their dreams and to show support for communities in need. The contest mechanics are similar to its previous iteration. Shoppers simply purchase a minimum of RM20 worth of participating Nestle products, including Milo, Maggi, Nescafe and Harvest Gourmet, in one receipt during the contest period. Sharifah credits the donation for B40 families.Next, participants have to take a photo of the receipt, upload it and complete the contest form obtained from the QR code, or they can send a WhatsApp message with the receipt image to 018-388 0070 and follow the contest instructions to join.

[NEWS_P009] Participants have to hold on to the original receipt for verification. The contest will run from May 1 to June 30. Two grand prize winners will take home a ‘salary for life’ of RM3,500 a month. Apart from that, nine consolation prize winners will have the chance to win a ‘salary for a year’ of the same cash amount, while a weekly cash prize of RM3,500 will be given out to 63 winners and a daily cash prize of RM350 for 610 winners. For more information on the contest, scan the QR code.
