[TITLE]
2.8 million trees planted in reforestation efforts

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2024-06-05
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2024/06/05/28-million-trees-planted-in-reforestation-efforts
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] Manufacturer sets sights on reaching target of 4 million by 2025 Nestle (M) Bhd’s reforestation efforts have reached another milestone with the planting of 2.8 million trees. The feat was made possible through the ongoing Project RELeaf and the previous Project RiLeaf. Notably, Project RELeaf alone had reached 1.8 million trees. These achievements align with the company’s goal of planting 4 million trees throughout Malaysia by 2025, resulting in an estimated carbon sequestration of 700,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2).

[NEWS_P002] During its nationwide events, over 400 Nestle Cares volunteers and representatives from partners Sime Darby Plantation (SDP) and TDM Plantation planted 5,000 trees at Kuala Selangor Nature Park; SDP North Labis in Johor, SDP Tiger Estate in Tawau, Sabah; Terengganu TDM Plantation and Perlis Forestry Department. Nestle Malaysia chief executive officer Juan Aranols expressed pride in the company’s reforestation efforts. “The cumulated planting of 2.8 million trees marks a significant milestone in our environmental, social and governance journey and our work today reflects our continued dedication to further our ‘Forest Positive’ strategy.

[NEWS_P003] “We are now setting our sights on planting the remaining 1.2 million trees through Project RELeaf by the first half of 2025, contributing to our target of 4 million trees,” said Aranols, who thanked Sime Darby Plantation, TDM Plantation and the Malaysian Nature Society for their support. The Project RELeaf name is guided by the “3Rs” namely reforest, restore and respect. Through the project Nestle Malaysia aims to reforest wildlife corridors, connect fragmented forests, mitigate human-animal conflict and protect wildlife habitats.

[NEWS_P004] The company also aims to restore riparian buffer zones to minimise water contamination due to soil sedimentation and agricultural run-off as well as support the positive transformation of local communities. Project RELeaf also supports the livelihoods of local farmers and Orang Asli communities, particularly women, in Kinabatangan, Sabah, and throughout the peninsula. This is achieved by capacity building while enhancing public awareness of the importance of environmental conservation.

[NEWS_P005] Among others, this includes activities such as planting and nurturing seedlings, overseeing their transfer to planting sites and tending to the planted trees. To date, Nestle Malaysia had engaged more than 90 local communities in seedling production and more than 120 local communities in tree planting. This time around, the tree planting also taught employees about reforestation and planting methods and fostered a sustainability mindset within the organisation.

[NEWS_P006] “We at Nestle Malaysia truly appreciate the importance of reforestation and respect for nature. “It is our hope that by participating in this tree-planting event all of us will inspire others to get involved in environmental stewardship. “We aim to create lasting positive impacts on the environment and the communities we serve,” said Aranols.
