[TITLE]
Lucky duo gets salary for lifetime

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2024-11-14
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2024/11/14/lucky-duo-gets-salary-for-lifetime
confidence_tier: low

[NEWS_P001] Grand prize also features RM84,000 donation to winners’ charity of choice TWO grand-prize winners of a “Salary For Life” contest will be receiving RM3,500 monthly for life. Spencer Lim, 37, from Sarawak and Lim Yuen Heng, 47, from Johor came out tops out of 11 finalists in the contest’s second edition by Nestle Malaysia. The prize not only provides long-term security for the winners but also includes a RM500,000 insured amount for their beneficiaries, ensuring the well-being of their families.

[NEWS_P002] The initiative also provided financial aid to 18 charities and non-governmental organisations across the nation. At the closing ceremony, 16 charitable organisations were presented with RM42,000 each, while the two organisations chosen by the contest’s grand-prize winners received a double donation of RM84,000 each. Spencer, who opted for the largesse to go to Mental Illness Awareness and Support Association (Miasa), said as a newlywed planning for a family, winning the grand prize was a blessing.

[NEWS_P003] “What’s equally meaningful is the chance to support Miasa’s important work in mental health awareness. “This cause is close to my heart and I’m grateful to contribute to such an important issue that often gets overlooked,” he added. Yuen Heng, meanwhile, chose Malaysian Foundation for the Blind to receive the RM84,000 contribution. He said the contest provided not just financial security for his family but also the opportunity to make a difference. “Supporting the foundation means we are contributing to enhancing the lives of visually impaired individuals, especially children who need additional support.

[NEWS_P004] “I am thankful to Nestle for creating this opportunity,” said Yuen Heng. The contribution supports the charities in their vital work, which takes care of many social needs, including advocating awareness and support for mental illness, aid for the visually impaired and caring for underprivileged children. “Our mission is deeply rooted in creating shared value for the communities in which we operate,” said Nestle (M) Bhd chief executive officer Juan Aranols.

[NEWS_P005] He said this was a strong belief which had been consistently demonstrated through the company’s 112 years of presence in Malaysia. “The ‘Salary For Life’ contest represents all this; it is part of our commitment to give back and uplift Malaysians in ways that resonate with their values and aspirations. “Beyond prizes, we are investing in the lives of Malaysians and the future of our communities,” he added. Nine others were announced winners in the “Salary For A Year” category, where they will receive RM3,500 each month for a year.

[NEWS_P006] Winner Emma Famiezza Elias, 31, from Pahang, said, “I never imagined I would be so lucky. “With this prize, I can help my family and support a charitable cause close to my heart. “It’s a blessing to be able to secure my future while also making a meaningful impact on others,” she added. Miasa founder and president Anita Abu Bakar said the donation would support its work in mental health advocacy, particularly in underserved communities. “This generous contribution helps expand access to essential services like peer support, counselling, and crisis intervention.

[NEWS_P007] “Through this collaboration, we hope more individuals will become aware of Miasa and feel empowered to seek the help they need,” she said. Malaysian Foundation for the Blind chairman and chief executive officer Silatul Rahim Dahman said the donation would help the organisation continue its work in providing services to the blind and visually impaired, particularly in areas such as education, training, employment, welfare and day-to-day living. “It is inspiring to see Nestle recognise the importance of the role we play in supporting the less fortunate, and we appreciate their commitment to making a positive difference.” Yokuk corporate communications head Alysha Zaid said being selected as one of the 16 beneficiaries was an honour for the foundation which cared for the disabled and underprivileged in Kelantan.

[NEWS_P008] “Nestle’s support will sustain our rehabilitation services especially for children in our hippotherapy and hydrotherapy programmes, continuing to enhance the quality of life for people with disabilities.”
