[TITLE]
Nestle Malaysia commissions RM18mil biomass boiler at Chembong complex to reduce carbon footprint

[NEWS_P001] NESTLE Malaysia has commissioned a biomass boiler at its industrial complex in Chembong, Negri Sembilan, which also houses its largest Milo plant in the world, as it makes greater strides towards reducing its carbon footprint. The biomass boiler, developed and installed at a cost of RM18mil, started operations at the end of 2023. Nestle Malaysia chief executive officer Juan Aranols said the boiler utilises oil palm empty fruit branches (EFB) and palm kernel shells as renewable energy sources and replaces fossil fuels to generate steam used for heating processes in its manufacturing operations.

[NEWS_P002] Nestle, he said, was honoured to be able to mark the complex's 30 years in Chembong with the official launch of the important sustainability investment. "As a responsible manufacturer, this initiative enables us to make significant progress towards our environmental goals, namely the reduction of our carbon footprint. "It also allows is to positively impact the Chembong community and honour our commitment to the environment," he said at the official launch ceremony by Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Aminuddin Harun.

[NEWS_P003] Aranols said this initiative also served as a testament to Nestle Malaysia's dedication in producing high-quality made-in-Malaysia products. He said with the adoption of a biomass boiler and the use of renewable electricity, Milo is taking further strides towards a more sustainable future. "Milo's colour is green and we are making Milo even greener for the planet and for all Malaysians, with the adoption of cleaner technologies that complement further the move to renewable electricity implemented in 2022," he added.

[NEWS_P004] The commissioning of the plant significantly reduces net CO2 emissions compared to fossil fuels and aids in the reduction of other greenhouse gases. The initiative, he said, is projected to significantly decrease the complex's greenhouse emissions by 14,000 tonnes of C02 equivalent annually, minimise pollution, reduce landfill waste and preserve valuable natural resources. In 2019, Nestle had invested an additional RM90mil to expand its Milo production plant, making the facility its biggest worldwide with a capacity to produce some 108,000 metric tonnes of the favourite beverage a year.

[NEWS_P005] Apart from the domestic market, the Milo produced here is exported to 20 countries including China, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand and as far as Kenya and Jamaica. The Milo variants produced at the plant which began operations in 1993 are from the 200g to 3.2kg packs, Milo 3-in-1 and Milo Kosong. Nestle also produces Milo in several other countries including Australia, the Philippines and Nigeria. Other products produced at the complex include Kit Kat, Nestle ice cream and Koko Krunch.

[NEWS_P006] Aminuddin in his speech commended Nestle Malaysia for the initiative. "I am truly delighted to witness Nestle's continued dedication to sustainable growth in Negri Sembilan. "The launch of the biomass boiler illustrates its commitment to environmentally responsible practices in business, which is in line with the state government’s shared values of environmental stewardship and sustainable economic growth," he said. Nestle, which is headquartered in Switzerland, is the world's largest food and beverage manufacturer.

[NEWS_P007] It is present in more than 180 countries and has a workforce of some 270,000.
