[TITLE]
A toast to diversity

[METADATA]
ticker: CARLSBG
company_name: Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2025-06-26
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/starpicks/2025/06/26/a-toast-to-diversity
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] Celebrating a major milestone, Carlsberg Malaysia was honoured with the Gold award for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at the 2025 SEEK People & Purpose Awards. From left: Carlsberg Malaysia people and culture business partner (commercial and corporate functions) Cynthia Soo, talent acquisition specialist Wong Siew Peng, talent acquisition manager Woo Yi Lei, people and culture Asia vice president Pauline Lim, organisational development senior manager Grace Ho and organisational development assistant manager Lim Hui Xian represented the company.

[NEWS_P002] Carlsberg Malaysia’s four-year diversity journey earns prestigious recognition at the 2025 SEEK People & Purpose Awards CARLSBERG Brewery Malaysia Berhad has secured esteemed honours at the 2025 Seek People & Purpose Awards, taking home the Gold award for Best Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) in recognition of its workplace transformation initiatives that have redefined corporate culture across the organisation. The prestigious accolade demonstrates Carlsberg Malaysia's success in embedding DEI as a strategic business priority over a four-year journey.

[NEWS_P003] This achievement positions the company as a leader in fostering a workplace culture that not only champions diversity but also drives sustainable business and social impact. It sets a benchmark for other organisations across the region. Guided by the company's purpose of “Brewing for a Better Today and Tomorrow”, Carlsberg Malaysia has implemented a comprehensive framework focused on four key pillars: business priority, diverse representation, equal opportunities and inclusive culture.

[NEWS_P004] “We are incredibly proud to receive this recognition,” said Carlsberg Malaysia people and culture director Choy Yen Li. “This award is a testament to the collective efforts of our leadership and employees in fostering a workplace where everyone feels valued, respected and empowered to thrive.” “At Carlsberg Malaysia, we believe that diversity and inclusion are not just values—they are business imperatives,” added Carlsberg Malaysia managing director Stefano Clini.

[NEWS_P005] “This award reflects our commitment to creating a culture where every voice is heard, every individual is respected, and everyone has the opportunity to grow. “We are proud of how far we’ve come, and even more excited about the journey ahead as we continue to brew a better today and tomorrow for all,” he noted. Carlsberg Malaysia was presented the Gold award for DEI, a testament to its dedication to fostering inclusivity. Carlsberg Malaysia's DEI initiatives span multiple areas of impact.

[NEWS_P006] The company has achieved 63% female representation in the Leadership Team since 2022, while implementing enhanced flexible work arrangements, expanding parental leave and improving facilities for employees with disabilities. The company has also developed inclusive hiring practices, internal mobility programmes and partnerships with organisations like the Enabling Academy to support neurodivergent individuals. Cultural engagement remains a cornerstone of the company's approach, with celebrations of all major festivals and the hosting of open dialogues, such as "Jom!

[NEWS_P007] Breakfast with Leaders," to foster a sense of belonging and inclusion. These efforts extend beyond the workplace through collaborations with LeadWomen and as a pioneer member of the ASEAN Inclusivity Collective (AIC), to drive change across the broader business community. Carlsberg Malaysia's DEI efforts are deeply integrated into its environment, social and governance (ESG) commitments, aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on gender equality and reducing inequalities.
