[TITLE]
Run spells progress for Batu Kawan

[METADATA]
ticker: KAWAN
company_name: Kawan Food
publish_date: 2024-12-18
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2024/12/18/run-spells-progress-for-batu-kawan
confidence_tier: low

[NEWS_P001] Penang bridge marathon a medley of sport, entertainment, fireworks HOLDING the Aspen-Klippa Penang Bridge International Marathon (PBIM) 2024 for the first time from mainland Penang has received the thumbs up from many runners. The Aspen Vision City venue in Batu Kawan was said to be a practical location for the bridge run that involved over 22,000 runners from 65 countries. Participant Lee Yong Yeow, 53, said the proximity of the Sultan Abdul Halim Muadzam Shah Bridge, referred to as the second Penang Bridge, allowed runners easy access to the venue.

[NEWS_P002] Runners on Sultan Abdul Halim Muadzam Shah Bridge during Aspen-Klippa Penang Bridge International Marathon 2024. — Photos: CHAN BOON KAI and ZHAFARAN NASIB/The Star and courtesy of instanteventphoto.my “The expansive area offers ample space for rest and post-race activities, providing a more organised and enjoyable experience for participants and spectators alike,” said Yong Yeow. Company manager S. Gopalakrishnan, 54, a participant who lives in Sungai Dua, said the vast area made it easy to accommodate large numbers of participants and spectators.

[NEWS_P003] “The location’s accessibility allows for smooth entry and exit, ensuring that all can enjoy the events over two days. Chow (with starting pistol) flagging off the event alongside state executive councillors, assemblymen and other VIPs. “Do not forget, there were live performances and fireworks display as pre-race day events. “The open, spacious environment offers a comfortable setting for participants to relax, socialise and experience the various activities without feeling crowded or constrained,” he added.

[NEWS_P004] Islander Yap Kok Hwa, 45, noted the absence of eateries at the new venue but was optimistic about its potential. Having taken on the 10km run with wife Mary Wong, 40, Yap said he would definitely give Batu Kawan a chance. Siti Khadijah (left) and Eng with their lucky draw grand prizes. The electronics technician plans to be back next year for the 10km run. “I’m sure there will be more places to hang out by then,” he said, adding that he was confident the area would continue to develop with additional amenities and dining options to enhance the overall experience for participants and visitors.

[NEWS_P005] Army officer Kasippilai Rethinasamy, 43, who has been participating in the race since 2017, said running on the second Penang Bridge was a refreshing yet challenging experience. “It presented a whole new set of physical and mental challenges. The marathon doubling as a family outing with some participants taking to the second Penang Bridge with their children. “Before this, it used to be held on the first Penang Bridge where the route is more familiar to me.

[NEWS_P006] “The Penang Bridge has always been a part of my routine, so I’m used to the landscape. “But the second Penang Bridge was different. It was longer and the view from the bridge was quite a change, requiring more concentration and effort. “The unfamiliarity of the route made it harder for me to pace myself. It will take some time to adjust, but I’m excited about the potential of this new venue as it continues to develop,” he said. Historic shift For the first time in the event’s history, the marathon, touted as the longest bridge run in South-East Asia, kicked off on the mainland, symbolising the Penang government’s aim to promote inclusive growth and development across all regions of Penang.

[NEWS_P007] There were three categories – full marathon (42km), half marathon (21km) and 10km. A total of 4,202 participants took part in the full marathon, 9,284 participated in the half marathon and 8,536 runners ran the 10km. Two first-timers from Kenya, Moses Mbugua Gaikarira, 37, and Rita Jeptoo Busienei, 36, made it a memorable outing by securing victory in the Men’s and Women’s 42km full marathon respectively. BIG Caring Group staff members hosting an on-ground event for participants.

[NEWS_P008] Gaikarira, who completed the run in 2:18:34s, operates a hardware shop back home. He said he would use the RM25,000 prize money to expand his shop and for his children’s education. “I have been running marathons for a few years, especially in Europe, and this is my first time here. “I am happy to win. Hopefully I can return to defend my title next year,” said Gaikarira, who came second in the Kuching Marathon earlier this year. Runners taking off on their10km race.

[NEWS_P009] As for Busienei, the victory was the best Christmas present for her and her family back home. “I have a five-year-old child and we live with my brothers and sisters. This win is for them,” said Busienei, who crossed the finish line in 2:40:01s. She added that a portion of the prize money would be for her family’s Christmas celebration. In the Best Malaysian Full Marathon (Men’s category), Muhamad Haziq Hamzah, 33, won in 2:46:19s. Some participants pose for a group shot after completing the marathon in Batu Kawan.

[NEWS_P010] “This is my ninth marathon for the year, including Osaka and Gold Coast,” said Muhamad Haziq, who is a regular at PBIM. “I have been competing regularly and found the new venue exhilarating and fun,” said the fitness coach. Tiffany Lee, 43, who won the Women’s Best Malaysian category, said age did not really matter. “I am hoping to win again next year, competing with all who are younger than me,” said Tiffany, an insurance consultant from Kajang, Selangor.

[NEWS_P011] Lucky winners The two-day event culminated in lucky winners taking home fabulous prizes, including two cars (Myvi 1.3G ASA Auto and Axia 1.0G) and three motorcycles (SM Sport 110E). Eng Sheng Hao from Kuala Kurau, Perak, won the Perodua Myvi. “This is my second time taking part in PBIM and I am really happy to have won the car, as I do not have one. I will be using this to travel to work,” said the 24-year-old IT specialist who works in Kuala Lumpur.

[NEWS_P012] Tiffany (left) and Muhamad Haziq posing with their trophies and mock cheques after winning the local women’s and men’s full marathon categories. Siti Khadijah Abd Rawof, 29, from Sungai Nibong, was overjoyed to win the Perodua Axia. “I already own one, so now I’ll have to think about what to do with the new one,” she said, smiling at the unexpected windfall. With two cars now at her disposal, the kindergarten teacher is mulling the options of whether to keep both, give one to a family member or sell the prize.

[NEWS_P013] “It’s a lovely dilemma to have,” she added. Vision for growth Penang tourism and creative economy committee chairman Wong Hon Wai, in his closing speech, said Aspen-Klippa PBIM was especially meaningful with the 10th anniversary celebration of the second Penang Bridge. “This engineering marvel has been more than just a physical connection between two places, as it stands as a symbol of progress, resilience and the connections that unite us. “Hosting the longest bridge run in South-East Asia on the iconic landmark is evidence of its importance, not only to Penang but to Malaysia as a whole.

[NEWS_P014] “As someone who personally completed the full marathon across the first Penang Bridge in 2022 and Ride with the Police 50km across the second Penang Bridge in 2023, I know the challenges and triumphs that each runner feels,” he said. Among those providing entertainment in conjunction with the marathon were Rabbit Mac and (below) 3P. Hon Wai said rebranding the marathon with a new venue and fresh programmes to make it more exciting would be a key priority, ensuring it continued to be a premier sporting event.

[NEWS_P015] “Our focus is on revitalising the marathon experience, making it more dynamic and appealing to participants and spectators alike. “By introducing innovative elements and leveraging the new location, we aim to enhance the overall event and strengthen its position as a standout event in the sporting calendar. “This is not just about running, but about creating an unforgettable experience and elevating Penang’s reputation as a top destination for sports tourism,” he said.

[NEWS_P016] Penang Chief Minister Chow Kon Yeow said shifting the marathon venue was apt as the mainland was a key focus area for Penang. “Development of Batu Kawan is a central aspect of this strategy as it is rich in potential, not only in terms of infrastructure but also opportunities for growth, investment and tourism. “We see Batu Kawan becoming a thriving hub, home to both businesses and international events.” The transformation, he said, would drive economic growth across Penang, creating new jobs and additional opportunities for local entrepreneurs and attracting visitors from around the world.

[NEWS_P017] Chow said with this vision in mind, the state government was actively working to create an environment that would attract more large-scale international events to the mainland. These efforts are aimed at enhancing infrastructure, improving accessibility and ensuring that Penang is well-equipped to host major global events. Chow had earlier flagged off all the run categories. The jam-packed two-day event included musical performances and cultural shows along with a spectacular display of fireworks before the start of the full marathon.

[NEWS_P018] This year’s main sponsors are Aspen and Klippa (Ikano Centres). The event is also backed by a diverse group of sponsors including Teleperformance, BIG Caring Group, Seiko (official timekeeper), and a special collaboration with Star Media Group as official media partner.
