[TITLE]
DOE finds unknown objects in stream flowing into Sg Pandan

[METADATA]
ticker: SG
company_name: Saudee Group Berhad
publish_date: 2024-09-05
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2024/09/05/doe-finds-unknown-objects-in-stream-flowing-into-sg-pandan
confidence_tier: low

[NEWS_P001] JOHOR BARU: The Environment Department (DOE) has found several unidentified objects dumped along a stream that connects to Sungai Pandan. Johor health and environment committee chairman Ling Tian Soon said the objects were found on Wednesday (Sept 4) while DOE was inspecting the area over recent chemical and odour pollution reports. “The Fire and Rescue Department handed over the investigation to the DOE which inspected the Sungai Pandan riverbank.

[NEWS_P002] “Near Taman Daya, DOE found several unidentified objects inside some packages dumped along the stream,” he said in a Facebook post on Thursday (Sept 5). ALSO READ: DOE report on Sg Pandan pollution will help identify culprit, says JB mayor The Yong Peng assemblyman added that DOE took several samples and sent them to the Chemistry Department for analysis. Ling went to the scene at 10am on Thursday as soon as he received word about the objects. “The area has the same odour that hit Kampung Melayu Pandan a couple of days ago.

[NEWS_P003] "DOE has put up safety lines around the area and is measuring the air quality there. “The department is looking at the pollution incident seriously and will continue to carry out inspections along Sungai Pandan and its streams to find the cause,” he added. Ling said DOE was also inspecting nearby factories within the Tebrau 1 industrial area to make sure these premises abide by the rules for managing industrial and chemical waste. “The inspection of these factories is to make sure they follow waste management SOPs.

[NEWS_P004] “The checks did not find anything unusual. With that in mind, the authorities will continue (to keep an eye on) these factories,” he said. There are more than 100 factories and premises operating along Sungai Pandan. Ling urged the public to be the eyes and ears of DOE and notify the department immediately if they come across anyone dumping industrial waste or chemicals in the river. ALSO READ: Unsafe levels of ammonia gas detected at Sg Pandan on Sept 3, says DOE “I condemn the irresponsible actions of those who dispose of materials or waste without professional handling.

[NEWS_P005] “Any industry or individual knowingly disposing of chemicals in water sources will face action under the Environmental Quality (Amendment) Act 2024, which provides for a prison sentence of not more than five years, a fine of not more than RM10mil, or both if convicted,” he said. A strong chemical odour was detected around Taman Daya, Taman Mount Austin and Taman Istimewa on Tuesday (Sept 3) morning, spreading to Kampung Melayu Pandan. Several villagers claimed the overpowering stench had caused them to feel dizzy.

[NEWS_P006] At 4pm that day, DOE detected unusual levels of ammonia gas along Sungai Pandan near Kampung Melayu Pandan. Its senior deputy director for Johor, Mohd Rashdan Topa, said the reading returned to normal levels following another round of monitoring at the same location at 1am on Wednesday. Rashdan added that those living in areas with high levels of ammonia gas may experience dizziness and nausea. He also said two villagers were given outpatient treatment following chemical odour pollution in the area but no one had been warded.
