[TITLE]
Tipsy-Turvy Quick Shots: Beer champs, highballs, and swift nights

[METADATA]
ticker: HEIM
company_name: Heineken
publish_date: 2024-09-26
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/lifestyle/living/tipsy-turvy/2024/09/26/tipsy-turvy-quick-shots-beer-champs-highballs-and-swift-nights
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] From newly crowned champions of a couple of competitions to some happening parties around town, here is a list of what's been going on in the drinks world lately. Champion of the pour Jason Dennis Dcruz from Te Amo was recently crowned the 2024 National Champion at the 2024 Star Academy National Finals by Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Heineken Malaysia). The victory has secured him the top spot to represent Malaysia at the Global Bartender Finals in the home of Heineken in Amsterdam.

[NEWS_P002] There, he will compete for the ultimate title: Heineken’s World’s Best Bartender. The 2024 Star Academy National Finals brought together fierce competition, with finalists hailing from Sabah, Sarawak, Penang, Kuala Lumpur, Perak, and Johor. This year marks the seventh edition of the Star Academy programme. The programme is committed to raising the bar in the services sector nationwide by training and enhancing the skills of local bartenders. Vibe with your tribe Bourbon makers Jim Beam has announced K-pop sensations Le Sserafim as the face of its brand in Asia, with a campaign that "delves into the essence of togetherness", seeking to "nurture a spirit of solidarity, helping people find their tribe and feel the undeniable power that comes from being together".

[NEWS_P003] The campaign kicks off with the Jim Beam Highball Bash event happening today and tomorrow (Sept 26 and 27) at APW Bangsar, a two-day bash that "blends the high-energy pulse of K-pop with Jim Beam's inclusive spirit". There, you can 'vibe with your tribe' while enjoying refreshing highballs crafted with Jim Beam bourbon, and you can even customise your drinks with unique ganishes at the Jim Beam Bar. There will also be interactive games and activities where guests stand a chance to win free highballs, as well as a best dressed contest.

[NEWS_P004] Among the artistes due to perform at the event are BATE’s dynamic duo DJ Blink and DJ Jovynn, with Saint Kylo and Odelia Tirza keeping the vibes alive all night long. As part of the campaign, Le Sserafim will be featured in a series of digital videos that showcase the group recording fun reels, exploring new drink recipes, and expressing their inner fashionistas together. Red Hand Champs Reka:Bar's Joel Poon and Rakh's Shatish Ramish recently emerged as champions of the Campari Red Hands 2024 cocktail compeition, which was held during the opening day of last week's Negroni Week 2024.

[NEWS_P005] The team's winning cocktail was called the Common Ground, which was a twist of a Rosita, a Negroni riff that uses tequila. R&R made a further twist on the drink by making it with Campari, Espolon Reposado tequila, Tio Pepe sherry, peach liqueur, grapefruit bitters and a smoked sea salt rim. Red Hands Asia is a competition where teams from top Asian bars will face off in a creative challenge centred around incorporating the five senses into their cocktails.

[NEWS_P006] The winning team member will represent their bar in the grand finale in Milan, vying for the coveted title of Campari Red Hands Asia Champion. Reka:Bar's Joel Poon (left) and Rakh's Shatish Ramish. Monkeying around town Ready to add some mischief into your week? From now and throughout October, Monkey Shoulder is bringing the fun with a series of bar takeovers that promise vibrant music, lively games, trendy spaces, and perfect drinks to give your nights a fresh twist.

[NEWS_P007] Monkey Shoulder is teaming up with the hottest bars in town to help Malaysians break free from the ordinary and mix up their nights with exclusive Monkey Shoulder bar takeovers, electrifying DJ lineups, as well as games and activities where you can win exclusive Monkey Shoulder merchandise. There's also 'Monkey Hour', where you can collect a Monkey Shoulder token within the bar and redeem a free glass of Monkey Shoulder, along with a lucky draw to win a bottle of Monkey Shoulder.

[NEWS_P008] For more information, visit this website or @monkeyshoulder). Swift Nights are back Martell Malaysia has announced the return of Martell Noblige Swift Talent Quest, in which Malaysia's most promising DJs compete for RM100,000 worth of prizes and more. Martell Noblige.Martell Noblige Swift Nights events will serve as the battleground for the Martell Noblige Swift Talent Quest. These are a series of immersive, high-energy parties featuring top DJs, neon-lit atmospheres, and surrealist-themed visuals, as well as interactive elements like the Swift Ball Pit.

[NEWS_P009] In collaboration with DJs Playground, this competition aims to push boundaries and fuse tradition with bold innovation, bringing fresh energy to the nightlife scene. Shortlisted participants from the Martell Noblige Swift Talent Quest will battle it out during Martell Noblige Swift Nights at clubs nationwide. Eight participants will be selected for the Semi-Finals thereafter, happening at the Martell Noblige Swift Festival Pre-Party. There, prominent regional DJs will serve as guest judges, and all the way to the Finals happening during the Swift Festival.

[NEWS_P010] The top four finalists will perform live at the festival, mentored by DJs Playground founders - DJ Julian, DJ Nexto, and DJ Reeve. For more details, visit swiftnights.martell.com.
