[TITLE]
Race walking gains popularity among youths

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Annual Review 2020
publish_date: 2024-12-03
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2024/12/03/race-walking-gains-popularity-among-youths
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] IT WAS a fitting finale before the year came to an end, with the successful conclusion of two major junior walking championships. Both events, one held in Melaka and the other in Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, saw some 200 junior walkers taking part in various categories. Race Walkers Association of Malaysia (RWAM) said both championships showcased the growing talent pool in the sport, reflecting the increasing popularity and competitiveness of race-walking among Malaysian youth.

[NEWS_P002] A total of 127 young walkers from 35 primary and secondary schools competed in the Melaka Junior Walking Championship final circuit at the SMK Seri Kota Melaka SSN track. The event witnessed important values such as sportsmanship, discipline and determination as the participants challenged one another in various categories –Under-9, Under-12 and Under-18 – for both boys and girls. The top 10 winners in each category were given prizes as a recognition of not just their athletic achievements but their dedication to the sport.

[NEWS_P003] Attending the event was Melaka Sports School’s chief coach Noraziah Kassim, who also presented the prizes. RWAM said Noraziah’s presence underscored the importance of nurturing young talent and investing in grassroots sports development. “We extend our heartfelt gratitude to the teachers, coaches and official judges who ensured the event’s success. “Their dedication is the cornerstone of the growing race-walking community,” RWAM stated. Some of the runners competing in the final circuit at the JDP event.

[NEWS_P004] As in previous circuits, Nestle Malaysia was the main sponsor, providing T-shirts and refreshments to motivate all participants to excel in the sport. Meanwhile, the Junior Development Programme (JDP) 2024 final circuit at Stadium Mini Bukit Jalil brought together 70 athletes, ranging from Under-9, Under-12, Under-15 and open categories for those above 15, for both boys and girls. RWAM said the event was a result of a strategic partnership with MKH Bhd.

[NEWS_P005] Its corporate communications general manager Christina Chen, who presented the awards, said it was the company’s long-term commitment to empowering the next generation through sports. Nestle, a long-time supporter of junior sports, once again played a pivotal role in sponsorship. “This year’s JDP has been a testament to the strength and passion of Malaysia’s junior athletes. “The programme reflects our commitment to holistic development – encouraging discipline, fitness and a love for competitive sports,” said RWAM secretary Yap Woon How.

[NEWS_P006] He said both events capped a year of progress for race-walking in Malaysia, underscoring the sport’s growing appeal among youth. “These initiatives are vital components of a broader vision to develop race-walking as a mainstream athletic discipline,” Yap added. Separately, RWAM president Tan Sri Eddy Chen Lok Loi shared his vision for the future of race-walking. “2024 has been an extraordinary year for Malaysian race-walking. “I am immensely proud of our young athletes, their families and the coaches who have worked tirelessly to nurture the community.

[NEWS_P007] “As we step into 2025, our focus will be on expanding opportunities for young athletes across all states,” he said. Chen also said RWAM aimed to introduce new training academies and increase participation in rural and underserved areas to ensure that those with potential have access to quality coaching and support. “Our goal is to see Malaysian athletes excel on international platforms, starting with grassroots development. “Sponsorship and partnerships are vital for sustaining these programmes and inspiring the next generation of champions,” he said.
