[TITLE]
More AEDs in S’gor public spaces

[METADATA]
ticker: PPB
company_name: PPB Group Berhad
publish_date: 2025-05-01
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2025/05/01/more-aeds-in-sgor-public-spaces
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] SELANGOR has taken a major step in enabling people to react fast to cardiac emergencies, with its Selangor Heart Safe mass training initiative. It aims to train the public in emergency response and instal more automated external defibrillators (AED) in public spaces. Health Ministry secretary-general Datuk Seri Suriani Ahmad said heart disease remained the leading cause of death in Malaysia, accounting for 16.1% of all fatalities. “This is even more concerning when it comes to sudden cardiac arrest, which often happens outside of hospitals and demands immediate action from the public before medical teams arrive,” she said at the launch of the initiative at a mall in Petaling Jaya.

[NEWS_P002] During the event, a public- access AED unit was donated to Taman Megah SS24 market, while 1,000 people took part in CPR and AED training. Suriani also said the Health Ministry would continue efforts to expand the availability of AEDs in public spaces nationwide, with the aim of taking Heart Safe nationwide. “The knowledge and skills acquired through CPR and AED training can empower individuals to act quickly and decisively in emergencies, where every second counts,” she added.

[NEWS_P003] Selangor public health and environment executive councillor Jamaliah Jamaluddin said the state government was reviewing guidelines to make AEDs compulsory in public hotspots. “Many among us still do not know what an AED is, let alone how to use one. “CPR is the immediate step we can take to save lives, while an AED can further increase the survival chances if used correctly alongside CPR,” she added. Selangor had earlier distributed 56 AED units to government buildings, local councils and state subsidiaries to increase accessibility to emergency equipment.

[NEWS_P004] “This not only improves immediate emergency response but also raises survival chances for individuals facing cardiac emergencies at government premises,” Jamaliah said. The mass training was organised by Penang Heart Safe Society and Alliance for a Safe Community in collaboration with Selangor Committee on Resuscitation Training, supported by PPB Group Bhd and venue sponsor PPB Properties. Alliance for a Safe Community chairman Tan Sri Lee Lam Thye said AEDs must become a mandatory feature at public facilities such as government buildings, transport hubs, malls, schools and sports complexes.

[NEWS_P005] “Just like fire extinguishers and emergency exits, AEDs should be treated as essential safety equipment,” said Lee. “Countries like Japan, Australia and the United Kingdom have introduced laws mandating AEDs in public spaces. Malaysia must follow suit.” Lee also called for nationwide public education efforts to teach people how to use AEDs alongside integration of CPR and AED training into school curricula. “The availability of AEDs alone is not enough if people do not know how to use them confidently,” he said, urging both government and private sectors stakeholders to offer free CPR and AED training sessions.

[NEWS_P006] Penang Heart Safe Society president Datuk Dr Luah Lean Wah said the programme was first launched in Penang in 2015, with over 300 public-access AEDs directly saving the lives of at least 17 individuals. “The visible impact of this programme in Penang highlights the importance of widespread CPR and AED training,” she said. “Our objective is to raise awareness about sudden cardiac arrest, equip people with CPR skills, introduce them to the AED, and provide practical training on how to use it,” she said.

[NEWS_P007] Dr Luah hopes Selangor Heart Safe will serve as a catalyst for similar initiatives to be rolled out across the country. “Our aim is to create safer, more resilient communities where every individual can play a role in saving lives,” she added.
