[TITLE]
Tipsy-Turvy Quick Shots: Scotch for a cause, cognac craft, peachy beer

[NEWS_P001] From whisky art auctions for a good cause, to cognac exhibition in TRX, here is a list of what's been going on in the drinks world lately. Scotch for a cause The Balvenie held its Evening of Ultimate Craftsmanship event in Sabayon at EQ Kuala Lumpur recently, which saw the unveiling of an art piece by international artist Edward Tan. The art piece was successfully auctioned for RM38,000, with proceeds from the sale going to The Rojak Projek, a social enterprise that focuses on creating positive understanding and awareness by promoting unity, culture and diversity.

[NEWS_P002] The art piece was created using an original oak cask as the canvas. — MICHAEL CHEANG/The Star Titled Convergence, the art piece was created using an original oak cask as the canvas, and is inspired by The Balvenie’s craftsmanship. Blending tradition with innovation, its curving form mirrors the smooth flow and texture of the single malt Scotch, uniting artistry with luxury and capturing the refinement and legacy behind the whisky. Guests were also treated to a tasting of the Balvenie 30 Year Old conducted by Jyri Pylkkanen, the Regional Malts Brand Ambassador for South-East Asia, as well as a special dinner curated by chef Steve Ariffin of Sabayon, paired with the Balvenie’s 14 Year Old Caribbean Cask, 16 Year Old French Oak, and 21 Year Old Portwood expressions.

[NEWS_P003] Craft of cognac Hennessy recently launched “Crafted, by Hennessy”, an exhibition that invites visitors to immerse themselves in 300 years of Hennessy’s craftsmanship. Running from now to Nov 3 at The Exchange, TRX in Kuala Lumpur, this exclusive showcase offers a rare journey through the artistry, innovation, and legacy that defines Hennessy. The exhibition offers an opportunity to experience five different rare pieces, showcased for the first time in Malaysia, to celebrate Hennessy’s mastery in cognac-making.

[NEWS_P004] Crafted By Hennessy runs from now until Nov 3, at TRX. Visitors will embark on a multi-sensorial exploration of the Hennessy universe, featuring curated spaces that will each unveil a unique facet of Hennessy’s rich heritage. These include 'Foundation of a Legend', in which guests delve into 300 years of legacy; 'Excellence by Nature', where you discover the cognac-making process from the very beginning, and 'Inside Cognac', which offers a rare glimpse into the heart of Hennessy’s masterful cognac creation.

[NEWS_P005] 'The Art of Hennessy' is a segment where the expertise of Hennessy's Master Blenders are shown through interactive displays and rare glimpses into the blending process, offering an insider’s view of the intricate craftsmanship. Last but not least are 'Global Icons', where you get to see Hennessy's influence on art, music, and pop culture; and 'Wonders of Creation', where you get to see the aforementioned selection of limited-edition pieces. You can register for the exhibition at this link: https://registernowtrxmedia.innerclub.vip/ Life gets peachy Combining the refreshing qualities of wheat beer with the perfect hint of delicately sweet peach, Edelweiss Peach is the latest release from Heineken Malaysia Berhad.

[NEWS_P006] Edelweiss Peach has subtly sweet notes and a crisp fruity finish. Crafted from golden wheat and infused with the sweetness of peaches, Edelweiss Peach brings a bright and delightfully refreshing taste that is sure to awaken your senses. With its subtly sweet notes and crisp fruity finish, Edelweiss Peach adds a touch of fun to everyday moments. The ‘Feel the Peach’ campaign is a playful spin-off from the brand’s ‘Feel the Alps’ campaign, both designed to offer consumers a rich, sensorial experience.

[NEWS_P007] This campaign captures the sweet and fuzzy essence of peaches, inviting everyone to experience life’s simple joys. Keep an eye out for Edelweiss Peach booths at selected hypermarkets and supermarkets to feel and taste the peach. The beer is now now available for purchase in 320ml cans at selected supermarkets, hypermarkets and convenience stores across Peninsular Malaysia.
