[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion
& Analysis
6 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Our Financial Performance
Continuing our trend of steady year-on-year growth, Group-wide revenue rose by 6.5% in FY2021. However, our net profit
decreased by 30.5% mainly due to weaker butter ratio during the year and one-off gain on the disposal of an associate
company in FY2020. Read more about our financial performance within the Financial Statements section of this report.
Read more: Financial Performance Review, page 40
Our Non-Financial Performance
In FY2021, we increased our annual cocoa grinding capacity by 20,000MT to a total of 277,000MT across our worldwide
production facilities. We were also crowned the Company of the Year Award in food manufacturing and were recognised
for our exemplary community care initiatives at the Sustainability and CSR Malaysia Awards.
RM3,923.3
million
14.86
sen
Revenue
Earnings
per share
RM196.8
million
RM1,342.3
million
Profit
before tax
Shareholders’
equity
RM154.8
million
0.92
times
Net profit
Net
gearing ratio
Snapshot of FY2021:
Financial and Non-Financial Performance Highlights

[MDA_P002]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 7
Corporate Information
Tan Ah Lai
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Re-designated on 15 April 2021)
Tay Hoe Lian
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer
Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick
Executive Director/Chief Operating Officer
Hia Cheng
Executive Director/Chief Financial Officer
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Ang Nyee Nyee
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Re-designated as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.

[MDA_P003]
15 April 2021)
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Hia Cheng
Chairman, Executive Director
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Ang Nyee Nyee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Ang Nyee Nyee
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.

[MDA_P004]
15 April 2021)
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Ang Nyee Nyee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Chairman, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
Ang Nyee Nyee
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Independent Non-Executive Director
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned w.e.f 15 April 2021)

[MDA_P005]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
8 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Information (Cont’d)
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
(Ceased as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
Secretaries
Ng Mei Wan (MIA 28862)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000801)
Tan Hui Khim (LS 0009936)
(SSM Practicing Certificate No.: 201908000859)
REGISTERED OFFICE
No. 7 (1st Floor) Jalan Pesta 1/1
Taman Tun Dr. Ismail 1
Jalan Bakri
84000 Muar Johor
Tel
: 06-954 1705
Fax
: 06-954 1707
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
PLO 273 Jalan Timah 2
Kawasan Perindustrian Pasir Gudang
81700 Pasir Gudang Johor
Tel
: 07-254 8888
Fax
: 07-251 1711
Website : www.gcbcocoa.com
SHARE REGISTRARS
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. Registration No.: 199601006647 (378993-D)
11th Floor Menara Symphony
No.

[MDA_P006]
5 Jalan Semangat (Jalan Professor Khoo Kay Kim)
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
Tel
: 03-7890 4700
Fax
: 03-7890 4670
AUDITORS
BDO PLT (LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206)
Chartered Accountants
Suite 18-04 Level 18 Menara Zurich
15 Jalan Dato’ Abdullah Tahir
80300 Johor Bahru Johor
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Alliance Bank Malaysia Berhad
AmBank Berhad
Bangkok Bank Berhad
Bank Of China (Malaysia) Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch
DBS Bank Limited
HL Bank Singapore
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
Maybank Singapore Limited
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited
RHB Bank Berhad
Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
SOLICITORS
Chee Siah Le Kee & Partners
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name : GCB
Stock Code : 5102
DATE OF LISTING
8 April 2005

[MDA_P007]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 9
Our Vision, Mission, Values & Promises
our Vision
To be the world’s most preferred and
leading cocoa partner. our Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to deliver quality cocoa and chocolates while offering
utmost flexibility and attention. Through forming strong alliances with local partners,
we are dedicated to serving our customers worldwide and growing together with them
in long-term partnerships. our VALUES
Grit
Ambition
Sincerity
our Promises
Full Product Range
Providing an extensive product
range from cocoa powder, liquor,
cake and butter to liquid and solid
chocolates in various shapes, sizes
and packaging options. Flexibility and Excellence in
Customer Service
Fulfilling customer orders as
our top priority; seeking to
establish long-term meaningful
relationships. Product Quality and Safety
Ensuring excellent throughput
at our production facilities
and compliance with all safety
standards. Technical Support and
Innovation
Crafting tailor-made recipes and
developing new products with our
experienced R&D team.

[MDA_P008]
Competitive Prices
Offering fair market prices by
sourcing competitively as one of
the biggest players in the market. Ethical Operation
Upholding strict operational
standards and treating people with
dignity and respect. Our suppliers
are expected and required to have
the strictest environmental and
social awareness.

[MDA_P009]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
10 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Corporate Structure
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
20%
Guan Chong Trading
Sdn. Bhd. (“GCT”)
GCB America, Inc
(“GCBA”)
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
(“Carlyle”)
GCB Foods Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCBF”)
Cocoarich Sdn. Bhd.
(“Cocoarich”)
GCB Oversea Holdings
Corporation (“GCBOHC”)
GCB Cocoa Malaysia
Sdn. Bhd. (“GCBCM”)
SMC Food21 (Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd. (“SMC”)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
GCB Cocoa Côte
d’Ivoire (“GCBCCI”)
Schokinag Holding
GmbH (“SCHOKINAG”)
GCB Cocoa UK Limited
(“GCBCUK”)
GCB Cocoa Europe B.V.
(“GCBCE”)
GCB Cocoa Trading Côte
d’Ivoire (“GCBCTI”)
100%
Guan Chong Cocoa
Manufacturer Sdn. Bhd.
(“GCCM”)
100%
GCB Cacao GmbH
(“GCB Cacao”)
100%
100%
GCB Cocoa Singapore
Pte Ltd (“GCBCS”)
PT GCB Cocoa
Indonesia (“GCBCI”)
100%
100%
Schokinag-Schokolade-
Industrie GmbH (“SSIG”)
Schokinag Verwaltungs
GmbH (“SVG”)
100%
PT Asia Cocoa
Indonesia (“ACI”)
10%
90%
(90% held by
GCB Cocoa
Singapore Pte Ltd)
(10% held by
Cocoarich
Sdn. Bhd.)

[MDA_P010]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 11
Corporate Principal Activities, Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and Market Positioning
Corporate Principal Activities
Our business is principally involved in the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients including cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come in
dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid form. Market Environment
FY2021 presented a challenging year for the Group,
as disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and
geopolitical tensions have led to uncertainty, global
inflation and supply chain disruptions. Even so, market demand during FY2021 was better than
FY2020 as economies gradually recovered from the impact
of COVID-19. Alongside the rapid rollout of COVID-19
vaccines in most countries and travel restrictions that are
gradually being lifted, there has been a surge in demand
for chocolate in the market in the United States1, and the
industry is adopting a cautiously optimistic outlook over
the medium-to-long-term.

[MDA_P011]
Nevertheless, our expansion plans represent both a risk and
an opportunity. While we stand to benefit from reduced
supply chain risks, differences in market conditions, social
and cultural practices, and business processes will pose
challenges that will require coordinated and collective
effort to overcome. Competitive Landscape
Even with the recent expansion activities, as the world’s
fourth largest cocoa grinding company, we continue to
face stiff competition from major international companies
that boast wider market reach, stronger influence
and greater financial resources. Furthermore, these
international companies usually operate end-to-end,
vertically integrated supply chains, thereby reducing their
exposure to risks derived from logistical challenges and
weakened market demand. In addressing this issue, our new cocoa processing facility in
Ivory Coast, expected to commence production activities
in mid-2022, will have a transformative effect.

[MDA_P012]
It will enable
us to source cocoa beans directly from origin, which will
not only provide us a shorter bean-to-ingredients cycle
compared to our other facilities, but also give us better
control over the scheduling and supply reliability of quality
beans. This will mitigate supply chain risks and empower
greater control over the scheduling of our production and
shipping activities. Ultimately, by enabling the direct supply of cocoa
ingredients to our operations in Germany and the United
Kingdom, our facility in Ivory Coast will drive increased cost
efficiencies, giving us increased leeway to capture market
share and achieve long-term growth in these important
markets and beyond. Market Positioning
We are optimistic that the acquisitions and expansion we
have made in the past few years stand us in good stead to
strengthen our presence as a key multinational player in
the global chocolate supply chain. Firstly, through our new cocoa processing facility in Ivory
Coast, we will benefit from direct access to raw materials in
the world’s largest cocoa bean producing country.

[MDA_P013]
This will
unlock operational and cost efficiencies across the Group,
enhancing our market position and competitiveness in the
global cocoa market. Secondly, our acquisition of SCHOKINAG in Germany
has improved our production capabilities and widened
our product portfolio, enabling us to compete strongly in
the German and broader European consumer chocolate
markets. To capitalise on growth opportunities in this
region of the world, we plan to allocate RM50 million in
2022 towards upgrading SCHOKINAG’s existing chocolate
production lines and setting up additional machineries,
thereby expanding its annual production capacity from
90,000 MT to 100,000MT. Concurrently, we have appointed
a contractor to set up a new chocolate producing facility
in the United Kingdom, set to be completed in Q4 2022,
enabling us to expand our client base in the United
Kingdom and other international markets. As the global economy enters the post-pandemic era,
these strategic moves that we proactively made mean we
are both more integrated and more diversified than ever
before. This not only gives us access to more avenues for
growth but also mitigates against supply chain and demand
risks that persist.

[MDA_P014]
1 Confectionary News (2022), US Demand For Chocolate Drives
Up Cocoa Prices

[MDA_P015]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
12 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Product Introduction
We offer a wide range of cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolates that cater to a multitude of applications, both within
the food production industry and across other popular consumer categories. Cocoa Mass
We produce raw cocoa paste, also called cocoa liquor, by roasting and grinding
cocoa nibs from solid to fluid mass. Cocoa mass is complementary to the
production of all chocolates, and especially dark chocolate, due to its smooth
texture. It can also be further used to create cocoa cake and cocoa butter for
further processing or for milk and white chocolate applications. Cocoa Butter
An intermediary product used in the production of chocolates, personal care
products, ointments and pharmaceutical products, cocoa butter is extracted from
the pressing of cocoa mass. Cocoa Cake
Derived from the cocoa mass pressing process, cocoa cake is the solid portion
of cocoa nibs which are then broken into smaller pieces. It is mainly used in the
industrial grinding process that creates cocoa powder.

[MDA_P016]
Cocoa Powder
Produced by grinding cocoa cake, cocoa powder is used to manufacture
chocolate confectioneries and chocolate paste, which is then used to produce
desserts. Chocolate Beverages
Our chocolate beverages are produced by blending different cocoa materials
with sugar, milk powder and other ingredients, and can be mixed with water for
consumption. Chocolate Chips & Chunks
Chocolate chips and chunks are used in the baking of cakes and biscuits and
for decoration purposes. Produced by our German subsidiary SCHOKINAG, our
chips are designed to be easy to dose, quick to melt and to offer exact tempering,
making the process of melting chocolate simpler. Liquid Chocolate
Produced by processing cocoa butter and cocoa mass, our liquid chocolate is rich
in flavonoids and antioxidants. By continually refining the complex production
processes involved, we have been able to achieve consistently high quality liquid
chocolate.

[MDA_P017]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 13
Where We Operate
Our production facilities span three continents, offering an annual bean grinding capacity of 277,000MT, annual value-
added capacity of 99,000MT and annual industrial chocolate capacity of 90,000MT across our varied cocoa processing
and chocolate production activities. With new facilities set to launch in Ivory Coast and the United Kingdom during 2022, and additional machineries set to be
installed at our SCHOKINAG plant in Germany, our annual bean grinding capacity is set to rise by a further 60,000MT and
our annual industrial chocolate capacity by a further 26,000MT. Facility
Location
Annual
Bean Grinding
Capacity
(MT)
Annual
Value-Added
Capacity
(MT)
Annual
Industrial
Chocolate
Capacity
(MT)
Guan Chong Cocoa Manufacturer
Sdn. Bhd. Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia
87,000
GCB Cocoa Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

[MDA_P018]
Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia
63,000
PT Asia Cocoa Indonesia
Batam,
Indonesia
120,000
SCHOKINAG Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH
Mannheim,
Germany
7,000
(Up to cocoa
mass)
90,000
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
Delaware,
United States
9,000
(Cocoa cake
grinding)
Carlyle Cocoa Co., LLC
Swedesboro,
United States
30,000
(Cocoa mass
melting)
60,000
(Cocoa butter
melting)
TOTAL
277,000
99,000
90,000
Under Construction/Expansion
GCB Cocoa Côte d’Ivoire
San Pedro,
Ivory Coast
60,000
GCB Cocoa UK Limited
Suffolk,
United Kingdom
16,000
SCHOKINAG Schokolade-Industrie
GmbH
Mannheim,
Germany
10,000
TOTAL
60,000
26,000

[MDA_P019]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
14 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Valued
Shareholders,
I am pleased to report that
despite facing numerous
challenges during the year,
Guan Chong Berhad (“GCB”
or “the Group”) recorded
an overall commendable
performance
for
the
financial year ended 31
December 2021 (“FY2021”). Numerous
major
events
have
impacted the cocoa grinding industry
since our inception in the 1980s. However, just as we have surmounted
our previous challenges to rise to the
ranks of becoming a leading global
cocoa grinder, we have similarly
navigated with purpose to maintain
a strong performance in the face of
geopolitical tensions, global inflation
and supply chain disruptions over the
past year. We have also seized opportunities
to strengthen our position as a
prominent
global
player
in
the
cocoa supply chain, with many of
our ongoing initiatives now reaching
fruition.

[MDA_P020]
Phase 1 of our factory in Ivory
Coast is approaching completion,
the planned construction of our new
chocolate producing facility in the
United Kingdom is set to conclude
in FY2022, and we have successfully
enhanced the profitability, operational
efficiency and improved utilisation of
capacity of our German subsidiary
SCHOKINAG. I am humbled to see all business
entities and corporate teams pulling
together with determination and
hard work to overcome the many
unprecedented obstacles we faced
during FY2021. With their concerted
efforts, I am proud to report that
we remain firmly on course towards
achieving our vision of becoming “the
world’s most preferred and leading
cocoa partner”. In our efforts to continually enhance
the value we provide in our reporting
to stakeholders, we are also thrilled to
present you with our first Integrated
Annual Report, which is written in
accordance with the International
<IR> Framework stipulated by the
Value Reporting Foundation ("VRF"),
previously known as the International
Integrated Reporting Council ("IIRC")
and the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board ("SASB").

[MDA_P021]
This
upgraded
framework
has
enabled us to integrate and align our
business objectives with our material
matters, risks and risks mitigation
actions to provide you with a better
understanding
of
our
approach
towards value creation, innovation
and expansion activities. In this Integrated Annual Report
FY2021,
we
look
forward
to
presenting you with a complete
account of our financial performance
and operational activities for the year,
as well as an overview of the current
market
landscape,
our
business
growth strategies and our prospects
for the future.

[MDA_P022]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 15
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
Successfully Navigating
Another Year of Uncertainty
The Group faced another challenging
year in FY2021, as the protracted
COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical
tensions
contributed
to
global
inflation and supply chain disruptions. While our logistical efficiencies were
already being impacted by multiple
lockdowns
and
stringent
safety
protocols, we also had to contend
with sharp freight increases and
supply chain bottlenecks within the
shipping industry that was suffering
from a mismatch in demand and
capacity. Against this backdrop, we nevertheless
continued to cement our position as
the fourth largest cocoa grinder in the
world, and maintained the grinding
activities of our facilities at optimal
utilisation rates to successfully meet
the needs of our clientele. We still
saw our production tonnage of cocoa
ingredients (cocoa butter and cocoa
solids) for FY2021 being sufficiently
covered
by
committed
sales. However, due to a fall in the price of
cocoa butter, our Group-wide profit
decreased.

[MDA_P023]
During FY2021, we increased our
grinding capacity by 20,000MT to end
the year with a total cocoa grinding
capacity of 277,000MT and industrial
chocolate capacity of 90,000MT
across our global operations. We
have
also
made
great
strides
towards
enhancing
our
competitiveness within the European
markets, as recent strategic expansion
plans in Ivory Coast, Germany and the
United Kingdom will soon significantly
increase our total capacity and unlock
various crucial operational and cost
efficiencies across the Group. Read more: Market Overview and
Outlook, page 26
Our Financial Performance
In a year marked by continued
uncertainty and upheaval due to the
COVID-19 pandemic and its varied
effects, we nevertheless recorded
a resilient financial performance,
expanding our revenue in line with
our ongoing global expansion plans,
which remain unaffected by the
overall slowdown that the global
economy experienced.

[MDA_P024]
While our profit before tax and net
profit declined during the year in
review, green shoots can clearly
be seen in our quarterly financial
performance, where Q3 of 2021 saw
a rise in quarter-on-quarter revenue
of 18.6% and Q4 a rise in net profit of
7.1% compared to the same quarter
the year before. These encouraging
results indicate that we are better
positioned to rebound in FY2022. Our total assets and total liabilities
increased
by
23.7%
and
31.5%
respectively in FY2021 as compared to
the year before. The increase in total
assets is mainly due to investment
during the year in property, plants
and equipment and higher inventory
level whereas the increase in total
liabilities is mainly due to increased
borrowings to finance higher volume
of raw materials purchased during
the year. Nevertheless, our retained
profits also rose 14.1%, bolstered by
our continued profitability. Read more: Financial Performance
Review, page 40
Expanding Our Capacity,
Capabilities and
Competencies
In FY2021, we made significant strides
forward in our undertaking of various
business growth strategies across our
global operations.

[MDA_P025]
In Malaysia, we were successful in
increasing our grinding capacity at
our Pasir Gudang plants by 20,000MT
to reach a total of 150,000MT. This
was achieved through an expansion
exercise carried out on our existing
facilities. In Ivory Coast, we will commence
Phase 1 operations with an initial
annual
grinding
capacity
of
60,000MT in mid-2022. The cocoa
processing facility will boost our
Group-wide annual grinding capacity
to 337,000MT upon completion,
empowering us to capture a greater
share of the global cocoa market. During FY2021, we
increased our grinding
capacity by 20,000MT to
end the year with a total
cocoa grinding capacity of
277,000MT and industrial
chocolate capacity of
90,000MT across our
global operations.

[MDA_P026]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
16 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
In the United Kingdom, we have
appointed
a
contractor
for
the
construction
of
a
chocolate
producing facility on a 17.8-acre
site in Glemsford, United Kingdom,
which will begin producing dark, milk
and white chocolate for the United
Kingdom and international markets in
the fourth quarter of 2022. Meanwhile
in
Germany,
our
optimization
and
enhancement
exercise for SCHOKINAG proved
to be a success, as we more than
doubled our earnings in our second
year
of
take
over. SCHOKINAG
posted RM32.8 million in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation expenses (“EBITDA”) for
FY2021 compared to RM14.8 million
in EBITDA recorded in the year before. The main drivers of this improvement
were effective fulfilment of customers’
orders, an increase in utilisation rates
and enhanced operational efficiency. We
have
also
enhanced
our
overarching commitment towards
maintaining
top
international
standards across our facilities.

[MDA_P027]
Most
of
our
cocoa
grinding
facilities
have
undergone
comprehensive
international certification processes
and have been certified with Hazard
Analysis
Critical
Control
Points
(“HACCP”) and Food Safety Scheme
Certification 22000 (“FSSC 22000”),
in addition to having passed the
Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit. These certifications underscore our
emphasis on maintaining stringent
quality standards and meeting ethical
standards of labour. Read more: Operational Performance
Review, page 45
Strategic Priorities to Drive
Long Term Success
As part of our business development
roadmap, we continue to place
emphasis on advancing the three
key strategic priorities of Growth/
Expansion,
Sustainability
and
Innovation to drive our success in the
medium-to-long-term. As part of our expansion activities,
we have continued diversifying our
operations through the cocoa supply
and value chain, with cocoa cake
grinding, cocoa mass and cocoa
butter melting, as well as cocoa butter
deodorising now being supported by
our facilities at Delaware and New
Jersey in the United States.

[MDA_P028]
Meanwhile, our plants in the Ivory
Coast and the United Kingdom will
enable us to unlock the efficiencies
of bringing our products closer to
customers, while our acquisition
of SCHOKINAG in Germany has
propelled us another crucial step
forward
towards
expanding
our
market presence in Europe. In
terms
of
sustainability
developments, 2021 was a notable
year for us as it saw the Group’s
expansion
of
Corporate
Social
Responsibility (“CSR”) activities, the
launch of farmer programmes in Ivory
Coast and greater transparency in
sustainability reporting. The Group has
also implemented greater use of solar
energy and biomass machines across
all entities to reduce our reliance on
non-renewable energy sources. We
have thus far installed 2800 solar
panels capable of generating 1,120
kilowatts peak (kWp) of energy to
meet the needs of our factories. We have also adopted the use of
biomass boilers that can convert
our
internally
generated
cocoa
shells to steam energy for heating
and the running of our machineries. Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)
We have thus far installed
2800 solar panels
capable of generating
1,120 kilowatts peak (kWp)
of energy to meet the
needs of our factories.

[MDA_P029]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 17
Our recycled cocoa shells currently
account for up to 48% of the fuel we
use for steam generation at our cocoa
grinding facilities at Pasir Gudang,
Malaysia, significantly reducing our
consumption of natural gas. We believe that constant innovation
is the key to maintaining market
superiority
and
place
great
importance on ensuring our facilities
consistently
produce
quality
products. We currently operate a
research and development team
that works closely with customers to
develop new recipes and innovative
products,
while
we
have
also
appointed a capable process team
that constantly explores opportunities
to adopt advanced technology in our
production processes. Our
acquisition
and
expansion
activities have also served to enhance
our
innovative
capabilities. Our
recent acquisition of SCHOKINAG,
which is one of the leading chocolate
manufacturers in Europe, not only
provided us with entry into the
European
industrial
chocolate
market, but also gave us access to
their innovative technologies and
processes.

[MDA_P030]
Read More: Growth Strategies, page
Supporting the Wider
Community
We acknowledge that contributing
positively to the communities in
which we operate represents an
important part of our duty as a socially
responsible corporation, and further
enables us to bolster our relationships
with key stakeholders. This has led to the conception of our
‘Caring Beyond Cocoa’ programme,
through which we undertake a wide
variety of community driven initiatives
each year within the scope of youth
empowerment,
environmental
protection, community support and
charitable donations. Some of the activities undertaken
during
FY2021
include
donating
RM73,000 to Muar Chong Associated
Chinese Schools, organising beach
clean-up activities at Sembawang Park
in collaboration with the Singapore
National Environment Agency and
funding renovation works at the
Children of Guru Shree Raghavendra
Charity Home at an expenditure of
RM7,200. We also stepped up to provide support
to both our internal and external
communities that were impacted
by the COVID-19 pandemic.

[MDA_P031]
For the
wider community, we took part in the
COVID-19 Food Assistance Program
initiated by the Rimbun Foundation, in
which we donated 750 packs of 3-in-1
Chocolate Drink (540g) to 15 schools
around the Klang Valley. Internally, we
ensured that our employees were well
taken care of during the pandemic
through the provision of additional
benefits, special leaves granted for
vaccination appointments or to care
for loved ones, and the flexibility of
working remotely when required. Read more: Sustainability Statement,
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)

[MDA_P032]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
18 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Understanding and
Mitigating Potential Risks
To ensure the continuous sustainability
and profitability of our business, we
constantly identify key external factors
that may influence our ongoing
operations
and
craft
appropriate
mitigation strategies to minimise their
potential impact. Despite being the fourth largest
cocoa grinder in the world, we
face competitive risks from major
international companies that have
a wider market reach, stronger
influence,
and
greater
financial
resources. To ensure we stand out in
the market, we continuously improve
the quality of our products, effectively
manage our operating costs to
maintain our competitiveness and
undertake global expansion activities
that bring us closer to the markets
we wish to penetrate and provide us
greater stability and efficiency within
our supply chain. The risk of undersupply of raw
materials is a threat to any business.

[MDA_P033]
However, we believe that our new
cocoa grinding facility in Ivory Coast,
which will provide us with direct
access to cocoa in the world’s largest
cocoa producing country, will prove
a game changer in improving the
supply availability for the Group and
supporting
increasing
customer
orders from mid-2022 onwards. Our global expansion activities across
Germany, the United Kingdom and
Ivory Coast have also raised our
cognisance towards the potential
geographical risks that may arise
when entering new markets, such
as differences in market conditions,
social and cultural practices, as well
as business processes. One of the
strategies we have employed to
address this is to nurture workforces
with the right balance of local hires
and experienced personnel from
Malaysia and Indonesia to lead the set
up. We will leverage on the wealth of
experience we gained from our past
expansions into Indonesia and the
United States to guide our practices
and ensure a smooth integration of
operations. Most of our trades are transacted in
United States Dollar (“USD”) and Great
Britain Pound (“GBP”) but our reporting
currency is in Malaysian Ringgit (“RM”).

[MDA_P034]
Hence, we are subjected to potential
currency fluctuations in the market. To alleviate this risk, we continue to
practice natural hedging in which
we match the currency used for the
purchase of our raw materials to the
currency of our sales. In addition to the above, we have
been
proactively
managing
the
impact of cocoa bean price volatility
risks by entering into forward sales
contracts
of
cocoa
ingredients. This was especially pertinent in the
early months of 2021 when the
implementation of the Living Income
Differential (“LID”) levied in October
2020 caused pricing uncertainties
within the market. Read more: Key Risks and Risk
Mitigation Actions, page 34
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)

[MDA_P035]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 19
Outlook
While countries around the world
have loosened pandemic restrictions
and re-opened borders, there remain
market uncertainties fuelled by the
potential reemergence of stronger
variants. At the same time, the
ongoing conflict between Russia and
Ukraine has the potential to drastically
influence oil prices and exert upward
pressure on shipping rates. Nevertheless,
is
generally
forecasted to be a year of recovery
as governments worldwide loosen
COVID-19 restrictions and move to
fully reopen borders and economies. The International Monetary Fund has
forecasted global Gross Domestic
Product (“GDP”) growth of 4.4% in
2022, and we are further optimistic
that the recommencement of travel
activities will also serve to boost
demand in the cocoa sector next year. Our recent expansion into Europe -
known for its high levels of chocolate
consumption - has placed us in a
prime position to capitalise on the
strong demand.

[MDA_P036]
At the same time, the
commencement of cocoa grinding
operations at our facility in Ivory
Coast will also see us begin to reap
the fruits of our ‘close to source’ and
‘close to market’ expansion policies. Our newfound ability to source
cocoa beans directly will provide us
with a shorter bean-to-ingredient
cycle compared to our other facilities,
mitigate future supply chain risks and
provide us greater control over our
production and logistic operations. To boost efforts in widening our
European footprint, we plan to
allocate RM50 million in capital
expenditure to upgrade SCHOKINAG’s
existing chocolate production lines
and set up additional machineries
to
increase
production
capacity
at the SCHOKINAG plant during
2022. This will be complemented
by the completion of our chocolate
producing facility in the United
Kingdom, which will commence
production of milk, dark and white
chocolate for the United Kingdom
and other international markets in the
fourth quarter of 2022.

[MDA_P037]
With these expansion plans coinciding
fortuitously with the expected uptick
in global economic growth during
FY2022, we remain optimistic in
significantly furthering the GCB brand
as a key multinational player in the
global cocoa and chocolate supply
chain in the coming year. Read More: Market Overview and
Outlook, page 26
Acknowledgements
I would like to hereby extend my
heartfelt appreciation to all our
customers,
suppliers,
employees
and business partners, as well as our
other valued stakeholders, for their
unending trust and commitment
towards supporting the Group as
we navigated through the various
challenges that came to the fore in
the past year. I would also like to thank the Board
of Directors for their consistently
dependable guidance, and express my
sincere appreciation and admiration
for our management team and
employees, whose dedication and
hard work form the very foundation
of all of GCB’s successes. Inspired by the continuous support
of all parties, we hope to incessantly
improve on our efforts to enhance the
stability, profitability and sustainability
of
our
operations,
and
achieve
progressively stronger performances
for many years to come.

[MDA_P038]
Chairman’s Statement (Cont’d)

[MDA_P039]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
20 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Directors’ Profile
TAN AH LAI
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Ah Lai was appointed as the Independent Non-
Executive Director of GCB on 26 October 2007 and was
re-designated as Independent Non-Executive Chairman on
15 April 2021. He is a fellow member of the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants (“ACCA”) and a Chartered
Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He started his career in 1990 as an Audit Assistant in
a public accounting firm. In 2011, he incorporated his
consulting firm which provides financial and management
consultation, tax and accounting related services. He has
extensive experience in corporate finance, management
and tax related works. Currently, he is the Independent
Non-Executive Director of Crescendo Corporation Berhad. He was re-designated as a Member of the Audit Committee
on 15 April 2021 and is a Member of the Risk Management
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination
Committee of the Company.

[MDA_P040]
He has no family relationship
with any director and/or major shareholder of the
Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with
the Company. He has not been convicted for any offences
within the past 5 years. He has attended all the five board meetings held in the
financial year ended 31 December 2021. Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Male
Board Composition
Committee membership key
Nomination
Committee
Age Group
Gender of Directors
Female (33%)
Male (67%)
56-60 (33%)
>60 (17%)
50-55 (50%)
Remuneration
Committee
Risk
Management
Committee
Audit
Committee

[MDA_P041]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 21
TAY HOE LIAN
Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Male
TAY HOW SIK @
TAY HOW SICK
Executive Director and
Chief Operating Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Male
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
Tay Hoe Lian was appointed as the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of GCB on 8 January 2005. He graduated with a degree in Bachelor of Business Administration from the
College of Business Administration at the University of Toledo in the United States
in 1993. Upon his graduation, he was appointed as the Manager of Transport
Division at JB Cocoa Group Sdn Bhd and oversaw the division’s operations. In 1997, he joined GCCM as the Marketing Manager and has successfully
marketed cocoa powder to the European, Middle Eastern and South American
markets. In 1999, he was elected as a Director of GCCM, and was later promoted
to the position of General Manager in 2002 and Managing Director in 2003.

[MDA_P042]
With
his contribution, GCCM has successfully expanded its production capacity to
become one of the leading players in the global cocoa bean processing industry
in terms of processing capacity and market share. He was elected as a member of Malaysian Cocoa Board by the Ministry of
Plantation Industries and Commodities and he held the position from 1 February
2013 to 31 January 2015. He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay How
Sik @ Tay How Sick, an Executive Director and shareholder of the Company. He does not have any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been
convicted for any offences within the past 5 years. He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021. Tay How Sik @ Tay How Sick was appointed as the Executive Director and Chief
Operating Officer of GCB on 8 January 2005. As a Director of JB Cocoa Group Sdn Bhd from 1987 to 2003, he was involved
in the initial setting up of the cocoa bean processing plant including building
facilities, setting up the production line and installing machineries.

[MDA_P043]
He took on
the role of Director and Factory Manager of GCCM in 1989 and has since been
in charge of the factory operations of GCCM. Over the years, he has gained
extensive knowledge and experience in the production of cocoa-derived food
ingredients as well as maintenance and modification of machines to enhance
production efficiency and improve product quality. He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay Hoe
Lian, the Managing Director and shareholder of the Company. He does not have
any conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any
offences within the past 5 years. He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.

[MDA_P044]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
22 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
HIA CHENG
Executive Director and
Chief Financial Officer
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Male
Hia Cheng was appointed as the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of
GCB on 8 January 2005. He obtained professional accounting qualification from the ACCA in 1991 and
became a fellow member of the ACCA in 2001. He was with TH Liew & Gan, a
local audit firm from 1986 to 1990, before joining GCCM in 1991 as the Accounts
Supervisor. In 1996, he was promoted to Finance and Trading Manager of GCCM,
leading the department in the sourcing of cocoa beans and the marketing of cocoa
butter, cocoa mass and cocoa cake. Throughout the years, he has been actively involved in corporate strategy planning
as well as in charge of the financial management and foreign currency management
of GCB. In addition, he also carries out feasibility studies and investment appraisals for
all expansion projects at GCB. He has successfully strengthened GCB’s relationships
with major players in the industry including international trading companies and
cocoa-related organisations.

[MDA_P045]
In February 2018, he was appointed as the General Manager of GCBCCI. He was
actively involved in the due diligence studies and negotiation on the acquisition
of Germany-based industrial chocolate producer SCHOKINAG. In July 2020, he
was appointed as the Director of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate
facility. In April 2021, he was appointed as the Director of GCBCE, the newly set up
subsidiary in Netherlands. In June 2021, he was also appointed as the Director of
GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast. Both of these subsidiaries will
be trading in nature. He is the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee of the Company. He is
not a director of any other public company. He has no family relationship with any
director and/or major shareholder of the Company nor does he have any conflict
of interest with the Company. He has not been convicted for any offences within
the past 5 years. He has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021. 22 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD

[MDA_P046]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 23
Directors’ Profile (Cont’d)
ANG NYEE NYEE
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Female
Ang Nyee Nyee was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Director of
GCB on 11 November 2020. She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from University of London,
United Kingdom and is qualified with the Certificate in Legal Practice awarded
by the Legal Profession Qualifying Board, Malaysia. She was called to the Bar and
admitted as an advocate and solicitor in 1993. She joined Nik Saghir & Ismail (the
precursor of Roger Tan & Partners (“RTNP”)) as a legal assistant in year 1994 and
was a partner of Nik Saghir & Ismail between the years 2004 to 2008. Currently,
she is a partner of RTNP. She was appointed as the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Nomination
Committee and a member of the Risk Management Committee and
Remuneration Committee of the Company on 15 April 2021. She has no family
relationship with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company nor
does she have any conflict of interest with the Company.

[MDA_P047]
She has not been
convicted for any offences within the past 5 years. She has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021. NURULHUDA BINTI
ABD KADIR
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality
Malaysian
Age
Gender
Female
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive
Director of GCB on 11 November 2020. She obtained a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) degree from the International Islamic
University of Malaysia. She was a partner of Nik Saghir & Ismail (the precursor
of Roger Tan & Partners (“RTNP”)) between the years 2004 to 2009 and was
a senior partner of RTNP between the years 2010 to 2016. Currently, she is a
partner of Faizah Aishah Rahman & Associates. She was appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
a member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee of the Company
on 15 April 2021. She has no family relationship with any director and/or major
shareholder of the Company nor does she have any conflict of interest with the
Company. She has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years. She has attended all the five board meetings held in the financial year ended 31
December 2021.

[MDA_P048]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
24 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Profile of Key Senior Management
Malaysian
Male
TAY HOW YEH
Director
Tay How Yeh was appointed as the Director of GCCM in January 2003. He is currently also
Director of GCBCS and GCBCM. He graduated with a Bachelor of Business Administration from the College of Business
Administration of University of Toledo, United States in 1989. From 1990 to 1995, he served
as Manager of GCT, where he was assigned with the task of sourcing cocoa bean in Tawau,
Sabah. Over the years, he has gained considerable experience in logistic and cocoa beans
quality assessment. Since joining GCCM in 1995 as a Production Manager, he has been in charge of the production
department and has assisted in production capacity expansion, production planning and
quality control. In 2008, he was appointed as the Production and Operation Manager of
GCBF, responsible for managing production planning, raw material procurement, inventory
control and quality control. In 2010, he was appointed as the Managing Director of Fuji Global Chocolates (M) Sdn Bhd,
monitoring the overall company performance.

[MDA_P049]
From August 2016 to February 2020, he
served as Director of Supply Chain of Fuji Global Chocolates (M) Sdn Bhd. In June 2021, he was appointed as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary
in Ivory Coast, which will be trading in nature. He was also appointed as the Director of
GCBCCI in August 2021.

[MDA_P050]
He is not a director of any other public company. He is the cousin of Tay Hoe Lian, the
Managing Director and shareholder of the Company, and brother of Tay How Sik @ Tay
How Sick, an Executive Director and shareholder of the company. He does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any offences within
the past 5 years. Malaysian
Female
TAY SEE MIN
Commercial Director
Tay See Min was appointed as the Commercial Director of GCBCS on 10 December 2010. She graduated with a Bachelor in Information System from Monash University, Australia
in 1993. Upon graduation, she worked in the Information Technology (“IT”) profession
and was last associated to American International Assurance (AIA) as an IT Manager. Since
joining GCCM, she has been actively involved in trading of cocoa beans and the sales and
marketing of cocoa products. In 2012, she was appointed to be in charge of the Indonesian
Market and has successfully set up a trading company in Jakarta, namely GCBCI. Since
then, she has been managing the subsidiary and has successfully expanded the customer
base in Indonesia.

[MDA_P051]
In 2014, she has been appointed to be in charge of the Japanese market where she actively
worked on building and strengthening relationships with Japanese trading companies
and multinational companies (“MNC”) customers. She is currently involved in corporate
strategic planning and strategic projects management, focusing primarily on expansion
and investment opportunities. She was appointed as the General Manager of GCBCCI in January 2019. In July 2020, she
was appointed as the Director of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate facility. In April 2021, she was appointed as the Director of GCBCE, the newly set up subsidiary in
Netherlands. In June 2021, she was also appointed as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly
set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast. Both of these subsidiaries will be trading in nature. She is not a director of any other public company. She is the sister of Tay Hoe Lian, the
Managing Director and shareholder of the Company. She does not have any conflict of
interest with the Company and has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5
years.

[MDA_P052]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 25
Profile of Key Senior Management (Cont’d)
Malaysian
Male
YAU TEE WAN
Senior Operation Manager
Yau Tee Wan was appointed as the Senior Operation Manager of GCCM on 01 January
2012. He graduated with a Bachelor of Physics from University of Malaya, Malaysia in 1997. Upon graduation, he joined Dunham Bush Sdn Bhd as a Research & Development Engineer,
responsible for research and development of air conditioning equipment. Subsequently, he
worked with Mewaholeo Industries Sdn Bhd as a Senior Production Executive, specialising
in overall production of specialty fats including frying oil, margarine and shortening, before
he left the job for the position of Maintenance Manager in GCCM in 18 March 2002. He manages the overall plant maintenance, technical parts and machineries procurement,
inventory control and project management for GCCM and was promoted to the position
of Operation Manager in 2005 and Group Operating Manager in 2010, overseeing the
production of GCCM, GCBF and ACI.

[MDA_P053]
Besides that, he is also the General Manager of ACI
and successfully achieved maximum efficiency in overall production by maintaining high
production yield and low processing cost. In March 2021, he was appointed as the Director
of GCBCUK, which will be an industrial chocolate facility. In June 2021, he was appointed
as the Director of GCBCTI, the newly set up subsidiary in Ivory Coast, which will be trading
in nature. He was also appointed as the Director of GCBCCI in August 2021. Currently, he
is leading the team and overseeing the constructions and development of projects in Ivory
Coast and the United Kingdom. He is not a director of any other public company. He has no family relationship with any
director of the Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years. German
Male
EDGAR
ALEXANDER
BITTONG
President of Carlyle Cocoa
Co., LLC
Edgar Alexander Bittong was appointed as the President of Carlyle in June 2020. He
obtained a Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central
Florida in 2007.

[MDA_P054]
He started his career in 2008 with PLOT Enterprise Ghana Limited as Site
Engineer, responsible for oversight of machine installations, civil works and factory building
construction. He was subsequently promoted to Production Manager in 2009 and he
managed the factory operations to ensure steady throughput, as well as oversaw plant
improvements to enhance efficiency. He joined Euromar Commodities GmbH as Process Engineer in 2011, moving on to the
role of Project Engineer in the subsequent year. Over the years, he has gained extensive
knowledge and experience in designing building layouts, project management and
planning, enabling him to ensure continuous production efficiency improvements. He then
worked for Cocoa Services LLC as Production Manager in 2013 before being promoted to
Plant Manager in 2016. He joined Carlyle in March 2018 as Vice President following the asset acquisition of Cocoa
Services LLC by Carlyle. He has been working on growth management, staff development,
and sales improvement of the Company’s New Jersey and Swedesboro factories. He is not a director of any other public company.

[MDA_P055]
He has no family relationship with any
director of the Company nor does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has not been convicted for any offences within the past 5 years.

[MDA_P056]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
26 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Market Overview & Outlook
We are operating within an undeniably turbulent
macroeconomic environment, where existing imbalances
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic have been exacerbated
by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, creating a knock-
on effect on consumer demand, business confidence and
the global supply chain. In a useful barometer of the global economy, the United
States inflation rose to 8.5% in March 2022, the highest
since December 1981, while its Consumer Price Index
(“CPI”) excluding volatile energy and food categories shot
up by 6.5%, the biggest CPI increase in 40 years1. This
phenomenon is largely due to continuing supply chain
bottlenecks, a lingering effect of the movement restriction
orders of the pandemic and its resultant labour shortages2. Even now, as economies re-open and restrictions are
lifted, a lack of containers has led to an even greater
mismatch between shipping demand and supply, causing
freight costs to rise even further.

[MDA_P057]
In Malaysia, for instance,
the Malaysian National Shippers’ Council (MNSC) reported
that sea freight rates have increased by up to 800% in some
routes when compared to pre-pandemic levels3. Despite the sluggish global economy and logistical
challenges detailed above, customers’ demand for cocoa-
derived ingredients remained strong in 2021 and as a result
we have achieved a good increase in production capacity
and turnover as compared to 2020. However, due to
the fall in cocoa butter prices, we have recorded a lower
profitability in 2021. Nevertheless, if we look beyond short-term shocks,
2022 has shown signs of being an international year of
recovery, spurred by loosening pandemic restrictions and
newly reopened borders. Accordingly, the International
Monetary Fund has forecasted a global growth rate of 4.4%
for the year4. With chocolate consumption already on an
upward trend in the market in the United States5, and the
resumption of global travel that is likely to drive increased
chocolate consumption, we are adopting a cautiously
optimistic outlook for 2022 due to the geopolitical tensions
and worldwide inflation mentioned above.

[MDA_P058]
Our optimism is bolstered by our past progressive
expansion as we are now the world’s fourth largest cocoa
grinding company, with a total of 277,000MT in annual
bean grinding capacity. This provides us both the scale to
mitigate against any supply-side shocks and the financial
clout to overcome dips in global demand that may happen.

[MDA_P059]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 27
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
More importantly, we continued with the rollout of our
growth plans to remain competitive, chief among which is
our new facility in Ivory Coast. This new facility will boost
additional bean grinding capacity to the Group and will
be a game-changer for our operations upon its launch,
enabling us to be both ‘close to source’ - as Ivory Coast
is the world’s largest source of cocoa beans - and ‘close
to market’ - empowering greater penetration of the major
chocolate consuming markets of Europe. Crucially, the new facility will shorten the bean-to-
ingredients cycle compared to other facilities. By enabling
us to directly source cocoa beans from Ivory Coast and
deliver processed cocoa ingredients to our Europe-based
operations, the impact of potential supply-side shocks will
be greatly reduced.

[MDA_P060]
Zeroing in further on Europe as a hub for growth in the mid-
to-long term, we will continue to expand our presence in
both Germany and the United Kingdom, while constantly
monitoring our investment to adapt to the market trends . To be specific, with the planned RM50 million to be invested
on the upgrade of SCHOKINAG’s existing chocolate
production lines, its annual industrial chocolate production
capacity will increase by 10,000MT. Meanwhile, with the
commissioning of our new chocolate production plant
in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2022, set
to start with dark, milk and white chocolate, an additional
16,000MT annual industrial chocolate production capacity
will be added. The new facility will supply to clients in
the United Kingdom and other international markets,
introducing our products to a wider client base than ever
before. Our global expansion strategy, which was planned in the
years prior to the pandemic and is coming to fruition,
set the stage for a resurgent performance as the world
enters the ‘new normal’, securing our place as a key multi-
national player in the global chocolate supply chain.

[MDA_P061]
These
expansion plans are targeted to be completed by the end
of 2022, with the benefits expected to come to realisation
starting from 2023. 1 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2022)
2 IMF Blog (2022), How Soaring Shipping Costs Raise Prices Around
The World
3 The Malaysian Reserve (2022), Sea Freights Rise 800% On Reduced
Capacity
4 IMF (2022), Rising Caseloads, A Disrupted Recovery, And Higher
Inflation
5 Confectionary News (2022), US Demand For Chocolate Drives Up
Cocoa Prices

[MDA_P062]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
28 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Financial Capital
• Our strong and stable financial position
• Share capital
• Shareholders’ equity
• Borrowings
Procurement
We work closely with our suppliers to ensure
that our cocoa beans meet global quality,
environmental and social standards in addition to
our stringent internal standards. Vision
To be the world’s most preferred and
leading cocoa partner. Mission
We at GCB Cocoa are committed to
deliver quality cocoa and chocolates
while offering utmost flexibility and
attention. Through
forming
strong
alliances with local partners, we are
dedicated to serving our customers
worldwide and growing together with
them in long-term partnerships.

[MDA_P063]
Values
• Grit
• Ambition
• Sincerity
Our Promises
• Full Product Range
• Product Quality and Safety
• Competitive Prices
• Flexibility and Excellence in Customer
Service
• Technical Support and Innovation
• Ethical Operation
Read More: Our Vision, Mission, Values &
Promises, page 9
Our Stakeholders
• Customers
• Shareholders/Investors
• Suppliers/Contractors
• Employees
• Governments/Regulators
Read More: Key Stakeholder Engagement,
Material Matters
• Product footprint, pricing and quality
• Sustainable operational performance
and expansion
• Responsible and ethical suppliers
• Talent attraction, development and
retention
• Governance and compliance
Read More: Material Matters, page 32
Risks
• Competitive risk
• Expansion and liquidity risk
• Cocoa bean supply risk
• Human workforce risk
• Compliance risk
Read More: Key Risks and Risk Mitigation
Actions, page 34
Strategic Priorities
• Growth/Expansion
• Sustainability
• Innovation
Read More: Growth Strategies, page 38
Manufactured Capital
Our existing facilities:
• Pasir Gudang, Malaysia (2)
• Batam, Indonesia (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
• Delaware, United States (1)
• Swedesboro, United States (1)
Our facilities under construction/expansion:
• San Pedro, Ivory Coast (1)
• Suffolk, United Kingdom (1)
• Mannheim, Germany (1)
Production
We strive to maintain eco-efficient production
processes that provide high quality cocoa
products and maximum benefit to our customers
while minimising environmental impact.

[MDA_P064]
Intellectual Capital
• Our innovative processes and technologies
• Our brand reputation as one of the largest cocoa
grinders in the world
• Our energy management and data collection
systems
Quality Assurance (of products and processes)
We have implemented a standardised safety
production process and system, in accordance
with international food and safety related
standards. Human Capital
• Our strong and diverse Board of Directors,
supported by our corporate governance structure
• Our experienced and diverse pool of talent which
includes top management and general staff (1,387
employees)
Sales & Marketing
Reflecting our responsibility to our consumers
and society as a whole, we produce and sell high
quality cocoa products and consistently seek
feedback from our customers. This enables us
to maintain long-term relationships and create
sustainable value for our customers and our
business.

[MDA_P065]
Social & Relationship Capital
• The strong and effective relationships we maintain
with key stakeholders, including our customers,
shareholders/investors, suppliers/contractors,
employees and governments/regulators
Distribution
We utilise a fully integrated and extensive
distribution system and network to ensure that
our products are efficiently distributed to our
customers. In doing so, we strive to minimise
negative environmental and social impacts by
managing our energy use and taking steps to
safeguard the safety of our personnel and local
communities.

[MDA_P066]
Natural Capital
• The cocoa beans we use, which are supplied from
Southeast Asia, Africa and South America
• The energy we consume in our operations,
including electricity, gas and steam
• The solar energy we produce and consume from
the 2,800 solar panels we have installed Group-
wide
• The steam we generate for heating and the running
of production machines using residual cocoa shells
• The water we consume in our production activities
Research & Development
We maximise the output and quality of our
products through research and development
in order to consistently deliver innovative
and environmentally friendly products to our
customers. Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Value Creation Business Model
Using inputs across our six capitals as a basis, we carry out well-established business activities that generate favourable
outputs, empowering our continued growth and expansion within the global cocoa-derived ingredient and chocolate
industry. Our value creation business model below connects this further to the meaningful and tangible outcomes that our
business activities deliver for our stakeholders. INPUTS
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

[MDA_P067]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 29
• Cash and bank balance: RM52.9million
• Revenue: RM3.9billion
• Net profit: RM154.8million
• Share capital: RM297.1million
• Shareholders’ equity: RM1.3billion
• Earnings per share: 14.86sen
• Net dividends per share: 3.01sen
• Total borrowings: RM1.3billion
• Net gearing ratio: 0.92 times
Customers
• Strong collaborative relationships with our
customers, enabling continuous fulfilment of their
volume and quality requirements
• Continual expansion of our footprint in Asian and
European markets
Shareholders/Investors
• Maintaining a consistently healthy financial
position
• Consistent value creation through sustained
capital appreciation and dividend payouts
Suppliers/Contractors
• Consistent growth in our base of quality suppliers
• Active promotion of social and environmental
responsibilities across our cocoa bean supply
chain
• Ongoing collaboration and communication with
suppliers to ensure the use of high quality raw
materials and the most advanced technology
Employees
• Attraction and retention of a skilled and competent
work force with:
- Regular provision of trainings which enhance
relevant knowledge and skills
- The upholding of the principles of non-
discrimination
and
equal
opportunity,
as
enshrined in the Business Ethics Policy and
Code of Conduct.

[MDA_P068]
- The promotion of diversity in the workplace
through our career advancement and hiring
practices
- The establishment of thorough grievance
procedures and a whistleblowing policy
• The adoption of various international product
quality and safety standards, such as FSSC,
IFS, GMP, HACCP, ISO 9001, Halal and Kosher
certifications
• An enhanced career progression and effective
reward system
Governments/Regulators
• Continued contribution to the economies where
we have presence in through sales of goods and
taxes paid
• Continued support of government policies
• Continued involvement in key corporate social
responsibility activities
• Maintenance of a strong corporate governance
framework
Our current capacity:
• Existing facilities:
- Cocoa Grinding: 277,000MT
- Value Added: 99,000MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 90,000MT
• Facilities under construction:
- Cocoa Grinding: 60,000MT
- Industrial Chocolate: 26,000MT
• Increased usage of advanced machinery and technology that reduce our reliance on non-renewable
energy sources
• Increased usage of solar panels and biomass machines for energy generation, resulting in an
improvement to our net energy consumption
• Adoption and implementation of relevant international standards in producing high quality cocoa
related products, including:
- Food Safety Scheme Certification (FSSC)
- International Food Standard (IFS)
- Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)
- Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP)
- ISO 9001: Quality Management System
- UTZ and Rainforest Alliance Standards
- Fairtrade Standards
- Halal and Kosher Certifications
• Monitoring of energy usage by measuring kWh consumed per MT of cocoa beans processed,
thereby reducing our overall energy consumption
• A more diverse Board of Directors, which nevertheless delivers relevant knowledge and experience in
key areas such as risk assessment, strategic planning, succession planning, financial and operational
management and more
• 100% of our employees are trained on the latest occupational health and safety practices
• RM157.3million was distributed in FY2021 for directors’ and employees’ remuneration and benefits
• Provision of additional employee benefits and assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as
flexibility to work from home or remotely, occasional work from home arrangements for parents
with sick children or childcare needs, provision of vaccination leave and more
• The quality cocoa beans we purchase
• The energy we consumed in FY2021:
• Electricity: 358,445 GJ
• Gas: 382,038 GJ
• Steam purchased: 13,277 GJ
• Solar energy: 4,857 GJ
• Steam generated from cocoa shells and saw dust: 98,179 GJ
• Total installed capacity of 1,120 kilowatts peak (“kWp”) at our factory from 2021 onwards (due to
installation of 2,800 solar panels, with each panel capable of generating 400W)
• 48% of the fuel requirement of our steam generation activities at our cocoa grinding facilities at
Pasir Gudang, Malaysia are supported by biomass boilers which use residual cocoa shells from our
production activities
• The volume of treated water discharged: 27,664m3
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
OUTPUTS
OUTCOMES

[MDA_P069]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
30 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Key Stakeholder Engagement
Through concerted and constructive engagements with our stakeholders, we develop a deeper understanding of their needs,
empowering the development and continual improvement of sustainable business strategies that create shared value. Stakeholder
Group
Why We Engage
How We Engage
How We Address Their Expectations
Customers
We
engage
with
our
customers to understand
their requirements in detail. This helps us drive high
product quality and delivery
standards,
and
develop
strategies that help us meet
their expectations. Ultimately,
our
efforts
help us build a strong and
diversified customer base,
thereby empowering our
continued
growth
and
expansion. • Calls and online meetings
• Email communication
• Annual customer surveys
• Our corporate website
• Trade shows (before the
COVID-19 pandemic)
• Maintaining
continuous
communication
and
driving
compliance
with
their
quality,
shipment,
delivery
and
other
requirements as listed within sales
contracts.

[MDA_P070]
• Ensuring social and legal (SEDEX)
compliance
with
international
standards, while developing and
publicly committing to a long-term,
Group-wide sustainability plan
• Sharing market and future trends with
our customers through weekly price
updates and regular communication
• Working closely with our customers
to provide flexible solutions - such
as technical support for product
development - which helps expand
our market share
Shareholders/
Investors
We
engage
with
our
shareholders and investors
to understand their specific
expectations. This enables
us to develop strategies
that deliver their expected
growth
and
capital
appreciation,
and
better
support our management in
achieving our goals. • Investor
briefings
and
other investor relations
engagements
• Our
Annual
General
Meeting
• Our Integrated Annual
Report
• Our corporate website
• Maintaining
continuous
communication
between
management and all departments
in order to prioritise key investor
expectations (e.g. expansion plans,
profit growth and stability, dividends).

[MDA_P071]
• Corporate
governance
practices
that
ensure
transparency
and
accountability, and help to prevent
corporate scandals, fraud and issues
pertaining
to
corporate
liability,
while building proper rules, policies
and practices that create long-term
shareholder value
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P072]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 31
Stakeholder
Group
Why We Engage
How We Engage
How We Address Their Expectations
Suppliers/
Contractors
It is vital to ensure the
consistent supply of raw
materials that meet our
quality
requirements,
especially when it comes to
cocoa beans, which account
for
nearly
95%
of
our
production inputs. We also
engage with our suppliers
to explore and encourage
the adoption of the latest
innovations in machineries
and packaging materials. By
nurturing
healthy
supplier relationships, we
also improve our likelihood
of
receiving
preferential
treatment
in
terms
of
pricing, special terms, better
services and more.

[MDA_P073]
• Calls
and
online
conferences
• Email communication
• Supplier evaluations
• Our Supplier Code of
Conduct
• Our corporate website
• Setting clear expectations within
our supplier relationships, defined
through Key Performance Indicators
(“KPIs”), targets and best practices in
relation to product quality, product
delivery and supplier payments
• Maintaining
the
high
ethical
standards
in
our
procurement
processes, especially in relation to
environmental and social issues
• Maintaining
regular
two-way
communication with our suppliers
on the latest market developments,
future trends and on our strategic
plans, thereby enabling better raw
material and machinery planning
• Maintaining regular communication
between suppliers and our internal
departments
(including
shipping,
trading,
marketing,
planning,
production and quality control) to
ensure that the supply of cocoa
beans is consistent and of good
quality
Employees
Engaging our employees
drives benefit on two fronts.

[MDA_P074]
In addition to enabling us
to better understand their
needs
and
expectations,
we also gain a greater
understanding of the various
skills and aptitudes at our
disposal, enabling us to
better deploy our human
resources for sustainable
growth. • Monthly
Workers’
Committee meetings
• Regular
employee
meetings (daily, weekly
and monthly, depending
on job profile)
• Employee
appraisal
sessions
• Team building activities
• Regular,
role-specific
training modules
• Consistently recognising the hard
work of our employees through a fair
remuneration and reward system
• Providing professional development
and
training
opportunities
to
enhance the skills of our employees
• Embedding our corporate vision,
business
direction
and
growth
plans at all levels, thereby nurturing
a greater sense of belonging and
purpose at work
Governments/
Regulators
Our
engagements
with
governments and regulators
are crucial to remaining
abreast of changing laws
and
regulatory
regimes,
thereby minimising the risk
of any disruptions to our
multinational operations.

[MDA_P075]
• Regulator certifications
• Reports
produced
by
regulators
• Visits
by
government
officials and/or regulatory
agents
• Company announcements
and statutory reporting
• Providing
government
officials
and regulatory authorities with the
reports and information they require
in a timely manner
• Facilitating smooth audits and visits
• Deepening
our
involvement
in
government-initiated programmes,
such
as
those
pertaining
to
sustainable cocoa
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P076]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
32 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Material Matters
Our material matters represent the core topics that are central to creating value in the short, medium and long-term. Guided by our materiality determination process, we continuously evaluate topics that are relevant to our stakeholders,
our industry and our countries of operation. With the insights gained, we enhance our strategies in turn.

[MDA_P077]
Our Materiality Determination Process
Our Material Matters
Material Matter
Description
Product Footprint, Pricing
and Quality
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We ensure the consistent quality of our products, their traceability to the farm level,
and the sustainability of the processes involved in their production
• We also recognise that our brand value (and the value of our products) is strongly
linked to being seen as reasonably priced, and thereby strive to ensure that competitive
price points are maintained
• Above all, we prioritise product safety first and ensure the strictest compliance to food
safety and other relevant regulations
• On top of these three crucial focus areas, within each of which our performance
greatly impact our reputation, we ensure that our Group is constantly growing in terms
of capacity, market presence, product quality and innovation
• This enables us to meet the demands and requirements of our established global
customers while maintaining our product footprint, pricing and quality standards
Sustainable Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• By managing and allocating resources effectively, we are best placed to maximise
shareholder returns
• To this end, we strive to maintain healthy performance in key financial metrics, thereby
encouraging potential investors to place trust in our growth plans
• Equally, we seek to minimise our risk exposure and build resilience against price
fluctuations in the commodity market
• These goals can only be achieved with a strong, competent and ethical management
team possessing experience and strong decision-making skills, thereby boosting the
confidence level of our existing investors and attracting new sources of capital
Identification
Evaluation & Prioritisation
Determination
Based on internal analysis of
our business and feedback
gathered, we identified topics
that are key to the Group, based
on their impact on our financial
and non-financial performance
and in the context of the Six
Capitals of the <IR> Framework
After evaluating the importance
of the topics in terms of their
known or potential effect on
value creation for our business
and stakeholders, we prioritised
five material matters to focus
on for FY2021
After prioritising the material
matters,
we
undertook
an
intensive exercise to determine
relevant information to disclose
about the scope and boundary
of each material matter for
reporting purposes
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P078]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 33
Material Matter
Description
Responsible and Ethical
Suppliers
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We strive to ensure that our cocoa bean suppliers only make purchases from farmers
who strictly comply and adhere to regulatory standards in relation to child labor, forced
labor, deforestation and other key social and environmental issues
• Furthermore, we ensure that our suppliers value and commit to our sustainable
practices in the supply of cocoa beans
• In order to reduce our own environmental impact, we have adopted energy efficient
machineries that also meet our output requirements
• We have also established procedures which enhance the ability of our suppliers to fulfil
our quantity and quality specification standards and food safety standards as stipulated
within their contracts
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• First and foremost, we strive to provide our employees with healthy and safe workplaces
while safeguarding the need for work-life balance
• In terms of employee rewards, we continue to adhere to a fair rewards system that
takes into account the different levels and skillsets of employees across our business
footprint
• In line with driving continuous employee improvement, we have also introduced
training initiatives that enhance the skills and knowledge of our workforce, towards
achieving our shared goals as an organisation
• This helps to forge a greater diversity in our workforce, not just in terms of background
but also skills, which improves our ability to solve problems and address issues that our
business encounters
• Reflecting the priority we place on diversity, our management brings a variety of skills,
experiences and backgrounds to the fore, empowering a flexible approach to business
management and driving our rapid expansion
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders involved:
Capitals impacted:
• We comply strictly with the relevant tax and Living Income Differential (“LID”) levies
within our respective import countries
• Various actions and steps have been undertaken to ensure compliance with all legal
requirements and regulations (in areas including environmental, social and governance
(ESG), product quality, food safety, Halal certification, data protection and more)
• Strong corporate governance plays an important role in driving synergy within our
value creation approach, while driving alignment to our corporate values across our
business divisions and subsidiaries
• We also keep a keen eye for any changes in relevant laws and regulations that might
impact our business operations within the respective jurisdictions where we are present
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Legend:
Financial
Capital
Manufactured
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Human
Capital
Social & Relationship
Capital
Natural
Capital
Customers
Shareholders/
Investors
Suppliers/
Contractors
Employees
Governments/
Regulators

[MDA_P079]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
34 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Key Risks & RISK MITIGATION ACTIONS
Given the multinational nature of our businesses, comprehensive risk management procedures are critical to our success. Below, we present the five risks which have been deemed to be most relevant to our business - each categorised by their
area of impact - and the risk mitigation strategies we employ to reduce our exposure. Our Risk Categories:
Risk Category
Description
Strategic
Risks primarily caused by events that are external to the Group, but have a significant
impact on our strategic decisions or activities
Operational
Unfortunate events that have the potential to disrupt our day-to-day operations and
processes
Financial
Risks that have a direct financial impact on the Group
Compliance
Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the countries where the Group is in
operation, that may result in financial penalties, reputational damage or even revocation
of business licenses
Our Risk Matrix:
Risk MATRIX
Likelihood
Impact
1. Competitive Risk
2. Expansion and Liquidity Risk
3. Cocoa Bean Supply Risk
4. Human Workforce Risk
5.

[MDA_P080]
Compliance Risk
Strategic
Operational
Financial
Compliance
Risk Categories
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P081]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 35
Risk
Category
Description
Mitigation Actions
Competitive Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Product Footprint,
Pricing and Quality
Stakeholders
involved:
Operational
• We
are
in
constant
competition
with
cocoa
industry players from around
the world. Therefore, failing to
adapt to the latest production
technologies may harm our
competitiveness and result in
the loss of valued customers
• However, any adoption of
new technologies must be
thoroughly considered and
deliberated
as
ill-advised
investments
may
incur
significant
costs
without
delivering benefits, therefore
reducing our profitability and
harming our competitiveness
• We must also stay alert
to
any
potential
health
hazards
and
inadequate
processes across our supply
chain, which may result in
customer complaints, food
safety issues and reputational
damage
• By expanding into the European market, we are
better placed to compete and maintain healthy
product margins.

[MDA_P082]
We are doing this by:
- Capitalising
on
SCHOKINAG’s
existing
marketing team and customer base, which
also helps to eliminate language and cultural
barriers
- Redefining and diversifying our customer
segments by selling specific bean blends to
targeted markets based on their preferences
and buying power
- Ensuring that we offer competitive prices to
our customers
• We
implement
the
Food
Safety
Quality
Management system, based on FSSC 22000,
which effectively mitigates against potential
quality or safety issues in our supply chain
• We employ experienced in-house personnel to
design efficient and cost-saving machineries,
while attending international exhibitions and
engaging machinery suppliers to stay abreast of
the latest technology developments
• We perform due diligence assessments before
purchasing any new machineries and technology
• We assign internal teams to engage with
customers and better understand their product
requirements, empowering innovation that is
geared to their specific needs
Expansion and
Liquidity Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Sustainable
Operational
Performance and
Expansion
Stakeholders
involved:
Financial
• In executing our expansion
plans,
inadequate
assessments or other due
diligence measurements can
lead to significant financial
costs
• It is also essential that we
match the sales of our
products and purchases of
beans to our production
capacity, while stringently
monitoring our cash flow
in order to avoid cash flow
deficits
• We are also exposed to price
fluctuations due to bean
terminal market movements,
which can lead to negative
impacts on our margin and
profit
• To reduce our exposure to risks from inadequately
planned expansions, we focus our expansion
efforts on our core areas of bean grinding and
industrial chocolate
• Before deciding to expand to a particular country,
we evaluate predefined criteria including political
issues, strategic location, government incentives,
long-term supply, quality issues, environmental
issues and more
• In order to mitigate against cash flow risk, we
constantly
monitor
marketing
and
trading
positions, and report findings in a timely manner to
the management in order to facilitate strategically
sound business decisions
• Working capital forecasts and bean inventory
forecasts
are
consistently
undertaken
and
updated to ensure sufficient cash flow
• We constantly monitor and manage our gearing
ratio to ensure that sufficient reserves are available
for expansion projects, while undertaking detailed
project forecasts to ensure sufficient financing is
available for the project at hand
• To mitigate against price fluctuation risks, we
enter into hedging contracts
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P083]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
36 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Risk
Category
Description
Mitigation Actions
Cocoa Bean
Supply Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Responsible and
Ethical Suppliers
Stakeholders
involved:
Strategic
If our suppliers do not adhere
to our Code of Conduct, for
instance by being involved
in illegal activities such as
deforestation or child labor,
this may lead attention from
global unions, market boycotts
of our products and significant
reputational damage
• We perform thorough background checks on all
new suppliers and do not engage suppliers who
lack an established company background or
portfolio
• We require all suppliers to sign and comply with
our Supplier Code of Conduct
• We regularly conduct supplier audits and
request detailed evidence if audit results are not
satisfactory
• We practice procurement procedures that
prioritise sustainability and work with suppliers
on action plans to further improve their sourcing
processes
Human
Workforce Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Talent Attraction,
Development and
Retention
Stakeholders
involved:
Operational
• Improper
assessment
of
potential candidates can lead
to the hiring of incompetent
employees,
incurring
financial
and
reputational
costs
• Similarly, if we are unable
to retain our most talented
employees,
our
human
capital and the collective
capabilities of our business
may be compromised
• We
must
also
remain
cognisant of any and all
employee safety concerns
including
those
derived
from production accidents,
machine failures and other
factors
• In addition, cultural and
language barriers present a
potential stumbling block to
the smooth operation of our
businesses, given our various
foreign subsidiaries
• To mitigate against the risk of hiring underqualified
talent, external recruitment agencies are engaged
regularly to provide consultancy and shortlist
suitably qualified candidates
• To drive human capital growth and employee
retention, we invest in well-established employee
development programmes that provide ample
training opportunities, while practicing internal
promotion and succession planning across the
Group
• We carry out annual performance reviews with
employees to canvass their feedback, identify
strengths and weaknesses in their performance,
and define goals for future career progression
• In line with our goal to nurture safe and healthy
workplaces, we ensure that all employees adhere
to established health and safety guidelines in
our offices, factories and warehouses, providing
training on a regular basis
• To drive consistency in standards and minimise
cultural and language barriers, experienced
management and operation teams are sent
to train employees at our foreign subsidiaries,
equipping them with relevant industry knowledge
• Regular
meetings
are
held
between
the
management team at our HQ and employees at
foreign subsidiaries in order to drive alignment
with our corporate vision, mission and goals
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P084]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 37
Risk
Category
Description
Mitigation Actions
Compliance Risk
Material Matters
impacted:
Governance and
Compliance
Stakeholders
involved:
Compliance
• Our multinational operations
mean we must navigate
complex regulatory regimes
across
tax,
cybersecurity,
food safety, manufacturing
processes and more
• Failure to comply with tax
and financial regulations can
lead to significant financial
penalties
• Failure
to
comply
with
cybersecurity rules can lead
to compromised information
as
well
as
significant
reputational damage
• Failure to comply with food
safety and quality regulations
may lead to products being
restricted
from
sales
in
specific jurisdictions, thereby
incurring financial losses
• The breach of laws and
regulations
such
as
the
Personal Data Protection Act
(“PDPA”), Employment Act
and of HALAL certification
standards
can
have
a
similarly damaging financial
and reputational impact
• Finally, we must adopt a
cautious
and
considered
approach
when
carrying
out business activities in a
country under sanctions or
one deemed as high-risk
• We attend regular trainings organised by
professional bodies to keep abreast of any
changes in relevant regulations
• We engage in regular discussions with local
authorities
in
order
to
understand
local
requirements and incentives for any projects that
we have in the pipeline
• To mitigate against food safety and quality risks,
we adhere to a Food Safety Quality Management
system based on FSSC 22000
• We follow detailed internal controls and Standard
Operating Procedures (“SOPs”) to ensure the
timely submission of required documents and
information
• We provide regular updates to marketers on
the list of sanctioned and high-risk countries to
avoid potential complications and scrutiny from
relevant authorities
• We ensure that requirements of the laws and
regulations in our countries of operation are
complied with at all times
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P085]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
38 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Growth Strategies
Our rise from a local producer to the fourth largest cocoa grinding company in the world has not quelled our ambition. As we look to the future and seek to further establish ourselves as an innovative and responsible industry giant, three core
Growth Strategies underpin our efforts. These strategies leverage on the competitive advantages we have developed over
the years, providing meaning and purpose to the specific actions we take across our global business footprint.

[MDA_P086]
Strategic Priorities
Competitive Advantages
Business Strategies
Timeframe
Short-term (1 year)
Medium-term (2-3 years)
Long-term (4-5 years)
Growth/Expansion
• We
have
an
annual
cocoa
grinding capacity of 277,000MT
per year and an annual industrial
chocolate capacity of 90,000MT
per year, supported by cocoa
grinding facilities at Pasir Gudang
(Malaysia), Batam (Indonesia) and
an industrial chocolate factory in
Mannheim (Germany)
• Our cocoa cake grinding, cocoa
mass and cocoa butter melting, as
well as cocoa butter deodorising
capabilities
are
supported
by
facilities in Delaware and New
Jersey, United States
• Our acquisition of SCHOKINAG in
Germany is aiding our expansion
in European markets
• We are actively setting up plants
in the United Kingdom and Ivory
Coast, bringing our production
activities
closer
to
European
markets
• Continue to keep a keen
eye on favourable future
expansion opportunities
in
order
to
increase
our market share in the
international
cocoa-
derived ingredient and
industrial
chocolate
market
• Continue to explore new
markets
and
develop
mutually
beneficial
relationships
with
customers across Asia
and Europe
Medium-term
Sustainability
• We have reduced our reliance on
non-renewable energy sources
• We
have
improved
our
net
energy consumption through the
increased use of solar energy and
biomass machines across all our
business entities
• Furthermore, our biomass boilers
use internally generated cocoa
shells, delivering up to 48% of
our fuel requirements for steam
generation
and
reducing
our
reliance on emissions-intensive
natural gas
• We
will
continue
to
expand our efforts in
harnessing
renewable
energy
• We
will
continue
to
introduce
energy
conservation
initiatives
while keeping an eye
on new methods and
technologies that can
reduce
our
overall
power
consumption
and improve our energy
efficiency
Medium-to-long-term
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review

[MDA_P087]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 39
Strategic Priorities
Competitive Advantages
Business Strategies
Timeframe
Short-term (1 year)
Medium-term (2-3 years)
Long-term (4-5 years)
Innovation
• We consistently adhere to stringent
processes which maximise the
quality of our products
• Through
the
acquisition
of
SCHOKINAG, one of the leading
chocolate
manufacturers
in
Europe, we have gained a strong
foothold in the industrial chocolate
market
• Our in-house R&D team works
closely with customers to develop
new
recipes
and
innovative
products
• Leveraging
the
strong
capabilities
of
our
process
team, we continuously explore
opportunities to adopt advanced
technology in our production lines
which streamline our production
processes and improve production
efficiency
• We
will
continue
to
explore
the
use
of
technology
that
can
improve
our
grinding
capacity and production
efficiency
• Our
R&D
team
will
continue
to
play
an
active role in exploring
and
integrating
best
manufacturing standards
that
maintain
and
improve the quality of
our products
Medium-to-long-term
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Strategic Review
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 39

[MDA_P088]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
40 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis
Financial Performance Review
In FY2021, we showed resilience in recording a revenue
of RM3,923.3 million, which was 6.5% higher compared
to RM3,685.0 million in the previous financial year. The
growth in revenue was driven by an overall global increase
in sales tonnage for cocoa products as the world economy
began its collective recovery. Despite the higher revenue, the Group recorded a lower
profit before tax (“PBT”) of RM196.8 million in FY2021,
compared to RM267.3 million in FY2020. While weakening
cocoa butter prices contributed to our lower PBT in
FY2021, it is important to note that our PBT was elevated in
FY2020 due to a one-off gain on disposal of an associate,
Fuji Global Chocolate (M) Sdn Bhd, during the year. A similar trend is thus reflected in the Group’s net profit, as
we registered RM154.8 million during FY2021 compared to
RM222.7 million previously. The Group’s total assets increased by 23.7% during the
year, standing at RM3,495.5 million as at 31 December
2021 compared to RM2,826.4 million the previous year.

[MDA_P089]
This is attributable to an increase in our property, plants
and equipment from expansion plans in Ivory Coast and
the United Kingdom, as well as higher inventory levels. Inventory levels significantly increased due to our purchase
of more raw materials to meet our sales commitments,
while and at the same time, customers were delaying their
shipments due to container shortages and unfavourable
freight costs. GCB’s total liabilities as at 31 December 2021 increased to
RM2,153.1 million from RM1,637.5 million the year before. The upturn was driven by higher loans and borrowings,
which were necessary for the financing of inventory, and
an increase in trade and other payables, which grew in line
with the higher volume of raw materials purchased during
the year. Our continued profitability has seen us expand our retained
profits from RM876.9 million last year to RM1,000.5 million
in FY2021. We also saw elevated share capital during the
year due to the conversion of warrants into shares. Total
shareholders’ equity increased by 12.9% to RM1,342.3
million as at 31 December 2021 in comparison with
RM1,188.9 million last year.

[MDA_P090]
Our net gearing remains at a manageable level of 0.92
times as at 31 December FY2021. Dividend
We appreciate the loyalty and support of our shareholders
and are committed to rewarding shareholders for their
continued investment in us. Accordingly, the Group has
declared and proposed three dividend payments in FY2021. These include a first and second interim dividend of 1.0 sen
per share, and a final dividend of 2.0 sen per share, which
is subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General
Meeting. This translates to a total dividend payout of RM41.9 million,
which is equivalent to 27.1% of our FY2021 net profit
attributable to shareholders.

[MDA_P091]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 41
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Read more about our financial performance in the Financial Statements section of this report.

[MDA_P092]
Summarised Group Income Statement
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December (RM’000)
Revenue
2,147,914
2,273,424
2,941,630
3,684,985
3,923,297
EBITDA
162,774
263,341
332,820
349,273
292,595
Profit/(Loss) Before Taxation
113,440
208,722
266,861
267,320
196,760
Net Profit/(Loss) Attributable to Equity Holders
91,045
190,115
217,948
222,709
154,838
Summarised Group Statement of Financial Position
As At 31 December (RM’000)
Total Non-Current Assets
427,513
500,067
534,718
964,932
1,072,428
Total Current Assets
1,152,655
1,284,084
1,507,086 * 1,861,440
2,423,044
Total Assets
1,580,168
1,784,151
2,041,804
2,826,372
3,495,472
Share Capital
121,832
121,832
220,407
263,236
297,059
Reserves
362,956
550,656
729,442
926,393
1,046,008
Treasury Shares
(5,195)
(5,347)
(226)
(720)
(720)
Shareholders’ Equity
479,593
667,141
949,623
1,188,909
1,342,347
Minority Interests
-
-
-
-
-
479,593
667,141
949,623
1,188,909
1,342,347
Total Non-Current Liabilities
51,217
80,940
93,933
556,263
516,242
Total Current Liabilities
1,049,358
1,036,070
998,248 * 1,081,200
1,636,883
1,580,168
1,784,151
2,041,804
2,826,372
3,495,472
* Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.

[MDA_P093]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
42 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Summarised Group Cash Flows
For the Financial Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000)
Operating Profit Before Working Capital Changes
154,009
255,790
330,050
338,739
277,912
Net Cash Flows (Used in)/From Operating Activities
(69,409)
302,542
(93,699)
*91,052
(79,134)
Net Cash Flows (Used in)/From Investing Activities
(66,224)
(99,174)
(62,068)
(321,221)
(164,591)
Net Cash Flows From/(Used in) Financing Activities
116,332
(199,713)
157,626
*254,771
241,231
Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents
(21,496)
4,420
1,714
25,266
(5,446)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year
48,434
26,938
31,358
33,072
58,338
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year#
26,938
31,358
33,072
58,338
52,892
# including effect on exchange rate difference
Financial Analysis
EBITDA Margin
7.58%
11.58%
11.31%
9.48%
7.46%
Profit Before Tax Margin
5.28%
9.18%
9.07%
7.25%
5.02%
Net Profit Margin
4.24%
8.36%
7.41%
6.04%
3.95%
Free Cash Flow (RM'000)
(128,392)
207,792
(156,229)
(312,302)
(243,321)
ROE (Average Equity)
19.0%
28.5%
23.0%
18.7%
11.5%
ROA (Average Total Assets)
5.8%
10.7%
10.7%
* 7.9%
4.4%
Earnings Per Share (sen)
19.05
19.89
22.51
21.82
14.86
Net Dividends Per Share (sen)
2.50
1.00
3.51
3.52
3.01
Payout Ratio
13.1%
5.0%
15.6%
16.1%
20.3%
Cash and Bank Balances (RM '000)
39,924
44,799
46,790
* 58,338
52,892
Total Borrowings (RM '000)
787,306
602,367
682,714
* 1,034,974
1,292,290
Gearing (net of cash)
1.56
0.84
0.67
* 0.82
0.92
* Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with current year’s presentation.

[MDA_P094]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 43
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Revenue (RM'000)
PBT (RM ‘000)
Total Assets (RM ‘000)
Returns on Equity (ROE)
EBITDA (RM’000)
Net Profit (RM ‘000)
Shareholders’ Equity (RM ‘000)
Returns on Assets (ROA)
2,147,914
1,580,168
162,774
91,045
479,593
2,273,424
1,784,151
263,341
190,115
667,141
2,941,630
2,041,804
332,820
217,948
949,623
3,684,985
2,826,372
349,273
222,709
1,188,909
3,923,297
113,440
208,722
266,861
267,320
196,760
3,495,472
292,595
154,838
1,342,347
19.0%
5.8%
28.5%
10.7%
23.0%
10.7%
18.7%
7.9%
11.5%
4.4%

[MDA_P095]
Overview
Introduction
Statement from Leader
Management Discussion
& Analysis
44 | GUAN CHONG BERHAD
Management Discussion & Analysis (Cont’d)
Financial Performance Review
Quarterly Analysis
Year Ended 31 Dec (RM’000)
% Chg
Turnover
1st Quarter
909,382
960,121
5.6%
2nd Quarter
910,777
876,226
-3.8%
3rd Quarter
841,587
998,104
18.6%
4th Quarter
1,023,239
1,088,846
6.4%
3,684,985
3,923,297
6.5%
Net Profit
1st Quarter
72,165
33,896
-53.0%
2nd Quarter
56,976
36,389
-36.1%
3rd Quarter
46,779
34,455
-26.3%
4th Quarter
46,789
50,098
7.1%
222,709
154,838
-30.5%
Quarterly Turnover (RM'000)
Quarterly Net Profit (RM’000)
1,000,000 -
800,000 -
600,000 -
400,000 -
200,000 -
0 -
80,000 -
60,000 -
40,000 -
20,000 -
0 -
1st Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter
1st Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter

[MDA_P096]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 45
Management Discussion & Analysis
Operational Performance Review
FY2021 was a challenging year for businesses worldwide,
with travel and social restrictions caused by the COVID-19
pandemic placing a dampener on consumer demand. This
downturn has especially affected discretionary purchases
such as chocolate, causing a chain effect that has in turn
led purchasers of cocoa-derived ingredients to rein in their
spending and to a decrease in the market prices of our core
products. Compounding the uncertainty that the pandemic has
caused, a global shortage in containers has led to an
unprecedented rise in freight costs. In December 2021, The
Wall Street Journal reported that this mismatch between
shipping demand and capacity was expected to cause the
rates in many annual shipping contracts to double1. This
has understandably led some of our customers to delay
their shipments, resulting in higher inventory levels.

[MDA_P097]
Furthermore, as of the publishing of this report, the ongoing
Russia-Ukraine conflict is expected to compound global
supply chain disruptions, with the rising price of oil and
other commodities set to exert additional upward pressure
on shipping rates2. However, amidst the challenges presented by our operating
environment, we have recorded a resilient financial
performance while maintaining grinding activities at our
facilities at optimal utilisation rates, successfully meeting
the needs of our client base. Furthermore, our production
tonnage of cocoa ingredients (cocoa butter and cocoa
solids) for FY2021 were covered by committed sales. This
secured profitability during the year in review of RM154.8
million. However, due to the fall in the price of cocoa
butter, this resulted in a drop in our annual profit. Looking at our industrial chocolate business, we recorded
strong contributions from SCHOKINAG, which saw
encouraging improvements in the second year after our
acquisition. SCHOKINAG posted RM32.8 million in EBITDA
for FY2021, more than double the RM14.8 million in EBITDA
recorded in the previous corresponding year.

[MDA_P098]
Contributing
factors to this positive performance included effective
fulfilment of customers’ orders, an increase in utilisation
rates and enhanced operational efficiency. Taken as a whole, FY2021 evidenced the strength of our
business during challenging times while providing a
positive outlook for our business. This provides optimism
as our expansion plans come to fruition in FY2023 and
beyond, we will be able to fully capitalise on enhanced
cost efficiencies and capture a greater share of the global
cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolate market. 1 Wall Street Journal (2021), Shipping and Logistics Costs Are Expected
to Keep Rising in 2022
2 Lloyd’s List (2022), UN Says Ukraine War To Lead To Even Higher
Freight Rates