[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
This has been an extraordinary year. We have all had to adjust to living with social and economic uncertainty under new
circumstances. On the personal front, parents have had to learn to supervise their children’s home-schooling needs,
employees to master how to work-from-home effectively, and we have become more accustomed to delivery services. On the business front, companies have had to readjust their short-term and long-term strategies. In some cases, these
have involved major pivots as some industries grounded to a halt. However, amid uncertainly lies opportunities and many
entrepreneurial efforts have mushroomed in response to the current situation. Like all enterprises, Power Root has had to adapt to these challenging times. As part of the essential food and beverage
industry, we have been able to continue to operate during 2020 and 2021 with necessary adjustments made across
production, distribution, sales and marketing, and administrative functions.

[MDA_P002]
At the same time, we have taken great care to
ensure that the welfare and interests of our employees and workers are met with stringent precautionary measures and new
standard operating procedures to ensure employee safety. Even as Power Root pursues growth for our beverages such as Alicafé, Per’l Café, Ah Huat White Coffee, Ah Huat Tea,
Frenché Roast, Oligo and Extra Power Root, we have continued to place great importance in improving our cost-efficiency
and the delivery channels for our products both at home and abroad. Although these are testing times, we will strive to
meet the expectations of our customers, employees, partners and shareholders.

[MDA_P003]
THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent Movement Control Orders (“MCOs”) in Malaysia as well as similar lockdowns
and restrictions overseas have resulted in economic contraction across the world. This uncertainty was reflected in cautious
consumer spending throughout 2020 and early 2021. However, as vaccination programmes are ramped up and movement
restrictions eased, there is increasing confidence for a sustained economic recovery moving forward.
In its press release in May 2021 titled ‘Economic and Financial Developments in Malaysia in the first quarter of 2021’,
Bank Negara Malaysia stated that the Malaysian economy remained on track for a recovery in 2021, supported by better
external and domestic demand. The report further added that the impact on growth was expected to be less severe
than experienced in 2020, with growth recovery benefitting from better global demand, increased public and private
sector expenditure as well as continued policy support. However, the growth outlook would continue to be shaped by
developments surrounding the pandemic.

[MDA_P004]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
DOMESTIC ACTIVITIES
Operational strategies
The MCO restrictions imposed in Malaysia required Power Root to adjust its business plans for the financial year under
review. While consumers were cautious in their spending, demand for our coffee and tea were relatively inelastic as these
form part of their staple diet. During this financial year, despite the turmoil in the market, Power Root has remained committed to its long-term strategy of
improving the company’s Return on Investment (“ROI”) and in embedding this as a core principle of the Power Root culture. We continued to leverage on technology to monitor and track our sales, product management and marketing initiatives. Power Root undertook further measures to foster a sustained culture of cost and control-consciousness across our
operations. Clear guidelines to ensure ROI compliance when investing in new manufacturing facilities and equipment were
set. Standard operational procedures on inventory management, among others, were revamped to reduce unnecessary
wastage and to optimise productivity.

[MDA_P005]
The latter was also the rationale for the Group instilling stringent human resources
planning procedures. In addition, we rationalised our production system for better machine utilisation and minimise
downtime. This included adjustments such as the standardisation of product sachet sizes which improved production
efficiency as specifications were similar. On the sales front, we rolled out our handheld sales force reporting system which provided real-time updates on our
distribution network. This system gives us immediate insight into inventory levels at outlets which allowed for better stock
management to meet customer demands. It also improved the monitoring and hence implementation of our marketing 5Ps
(place, price, product, promotion and people) strategy. We now have a higher level of capability in assessing the effectiveness and performance of our distribution network with
greater attention placed on non-sales key performance indicators such as the enhancement of product placement, price
management and execution of promotional activities and we will continue to enhance the system to meet the ever-changing
market requirements.

[MDA_P006]
Sales and distribution
Consumer behaviour has changed with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the community. During the initial MCO
which was in effect at the turn of our financial year, consumers heeded the call to stay home by opting to forgo visits
or minimising time spent at physical retail outlets. As a result, we saw a drop in retail outlets sales, including at petrol
kiosks around the nation which were a major distribution channel for our energy drinks. Furthermore, the closure of schools
affected the sales of our Oligo Chocolate Malt, a popular product among parents and children. Retail sales picked up when restrictions were eased following MCO 1.0. Unfortunately, the increasing number of cases
towards the end of 2020 impacted our sales and marketing efforts again when certain regions, including Kuala Lumpur,
were placed under lockdown and continued into early 2021 with the imposition of MCO 2.0. With the drop in retail footfall traffic and the rise in popularity of online shopping and delivery, the Group increased its online
availability and marketing presence to take advantage of this rapid shift in shopping patterns.

[MDA_P007]
While we had only a small presence online previously, we have significantly ramped up our availability across e-commerce
platforms this past year. We launched flagship stores on popular platforms such as Lazada and Shopee. Increased
competition among the e-commerce platforms also provided us with a wider choice of platform partners offering more
competitive pricing and extensive market coverage. We have also strengthened our social media and online sales team to boost our presence, increase customer touch points
and expand our social media marketing efforts. Marketing and branding
Market conditions saw a shift in the Group’s marketing and advertising strategies as there were limited opportunities to hold
sampling events at shopping centres. These had previously formed a major part in the introduction of our new products as
well as product revamp and repositioning launches. Instead, we chose to focus on customised campaigns. This approach
also suited our social media advertising campaigns which honed in more narrowly toward our intended consumer audience. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d

[MDA_P008]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d
Such customised campaigns ran across thematic and brand-specific lines. Our thematic campaigns were geared towards
local festivities such as Chinese New Year, Hari Raya Aidilfitri and the Mid-Autumn festival where we ran special promotions
to suit the occasions. The brand-specific campaigns drew on product association and product placements in areas which
would generate a positive impact. These included creating an appropriate atmosphere and providing premium gifts to build
an association with the brand. An example was our Frenché Roast campaign. Our Frenché Roast brand is aimed at the coffee enthusiast who prefers a more robust blend with a sophisticated taste. As
such, we fashioned our on-the-ground Permanent Gondola End campaign at major retail outlets with promoters dressed up
in outfits which evoked a sense of European café culture elegance. Artisanal chocolate packaged under the Frenché Roast
brand was also presented to consumers and Power Root business partners to conjure up a similar association towards the
Frenché Roast brand.

[MDA_P009]
A different avenue of marketing to mass premium market consumers was through the use of social media in collaboration
with key opinion leaders (“KOLs”) to promote brand awareness and engage consumers. KOLs are influencers who engage
and influence social media users by driving consumer trends and generating product interest through digital word-of-mouth. This increases brand visibility and channels consumers to e-commerce brand stores. Power Root utilised this marketing route
to attract the attention of digitally-savvy consumers in our targeted markets, particularly during our Frenché Roast promotion
campaign on Shopee which ran during March and April 2021. During this campaign, KOLs created greater brand visibility for
Frenché Roast and encouraged their followers to purchase Frenché Roast products at a specially discounted price. As sampling events for our products were put on hold due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we carried out induced trials in
reaching out to consumers through cross-category brand collaborations. Our partners in such collaborations were other
leading food and beverage companies with products complementing our brands.

[MDA_P010]
For example, we leveraged on a leading milk brand in distributing Frenché Roast samples. Consumers purchasing a
pack of a dozen one litre cartons of milk received 24 free sachets of Frenché Roast Indulgence Iced Frenché Latte. This
promotion ran on our partner’s official store in Lazada and Shopee in December 2020. A similar campaign with a well-
known biscuit brand ran on our partner’s official store on Lazada and Shopee in December 2020 and March 2021. We also partnered with a bread manufacturer in distributing one sachet of Frenché Roast Premium Blend with every
purchase of one loaf of the bread manufacturer’s white bread in March and April 2021. Chinese New Year (“CNY”) advertisements ran on television between December 2020 and February 2021. As in previous
years, we offered Ah Huat Chinese New Year Promotional packages during this festive season with free Ah Huat angpow
packets available together with the purchase of Ah Huat Gold Medal and Ah Huat Extra Rich packs. Those purchasing
the CNY tri-pack received an Ah Huat lucky tumbler. These promotional campaigns were well-received, particularly those
offered through the e-commerce channels.

[MDA_P011]
On-the-road branding awareness campaigns we undertook this year included our revamping of 18 trucks to advertise
Ah Huat, Per’l, Alicafé Warung, Extra Power Root, Alicafé Tongkat Ali & Ginseng brands. We also had 30 units of Alicafé
Tongkat Ali & Ginseng billboard advertisements along the PLUS highway northbound and southbound from Kedah to Johor
between August 2020 and February 2021. In March 2021, we offered free 4-layer antibacterial washable masks with the purchase of Power Root twin pack products. This past year, we continued our successful brand association with Brand Ambassadors Alif Satar and Aniu. Besides being
a well-known television host, Alif Satar, our Brand Ambassador for Alicafé is also a multi-talented singer, actor, composer
and writer. Singer-song writer Aniu has long been an Ambassador for Ah Huat White Coffee. PRODUCT UPDATE
Two new Ah Huat products providing a more traditional “kopitiam” taste were introduced during the year. Ah Huat Kopitiam
Charcoal Roast 3 in 1 White Coffee brings out the aroma of charcoal roasted micro-ground and freeze-dried coffee beans. This product was rolled out in August 2020.

[MDA_P012]
In November 2020, we launched Ah Huat Kopitiam Charcoal Roast Kopi C
which offers a delicate balance of flavours with a strong mellow taste using ground coffee, sugar and fresh milk. Both these
products are also available in our Brunei and Singapore markets.

[MDA_P013]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d
We extended our Oligo range with the introduction of Oligo Protein Chocolate Malt in November 2020. This new variant
contains vitamins B1, B2, B6 and B12 as well as oligofructose and is high in protein. It joins Oligo Calcium as part of our
Oligo-in-a-can range. Jom Kopi Coffeemix 3 in 1 was launched in January 2021. This blend of micro-ground coffee with date extracts to enhance
its sweetness gives consumers a differentiated taste to appreciate. EXPORTS
Amongst others, our global performance was also affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. China, which faced the pandemic
early on, has shown good economic recovery since June 2020. We have also started to see the positive results from the
restructuring we had carried out on our supply chain, distribution and online business in the China market in the financial
year 2019/2020. At the end of 2020, Power Root participated in two separate live broadcasts where we promoted two
brands in particular.

[MDA_P014]
Alicafé French Roast was the product highlighted in the first event hosted by famous Chinese actor/TV
host Shen Tao in October 2020. Alicafé White Coffee Extra Rich was featured in the second broadcast compered by well-
known TV host Li Jing in December 2020. In Singapore and Brunei, we saw an improvement in consumption and increased the brand choices available in these two
countries with the launch of Ah Huat Kopitiam Charcoal Roast 3 in 1 White Coffee and Ah Huat Kopitiam Charcoal Roast
Kopi C towards the end of this financial year. Sales in the Middle East and North Africa (“MENA”) were disappointing this past financial year due to three main factors:
COVID-19, a hike in the value-added tax in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (“KSA”), and the sugar tax imposed in the United
Arab Emirates (“UAE”) and the KSA. A slower economic climate, employment concerns and higher prices for goods affected consumer spending in the region. This
resulted in faltering confidence where a more cautious consumer consumption behaviour and dampened demand prevailed. In anticipation of the sugar tax impact, Power Root had launched the Alicafé Italian Roast brand in the UAE and KSA in
February 2020.

[MDA_P015]
However, sales were slow as our marketing campaign was restricted by lockdown measures and we were
only able to hold limited on-the-ground events to promote this new brand. These setbacks have revealed the Group’s vulnerable points in the region and we will continue to implement changes in
improving on these weaknesses as MENA remains an important market. These changes included the restructuring of our
products and pricing strategies, as well as a change to more proactive distributors in the UAE. We also plan to widen our
market further to cover more non-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. PRODUCTION
Power Root was fortunate to be categorised as a provider of essential services under the MCO. This meant that we could
continue operating albeit under strict standard operating procedures. We also proceeded with plans to enhance efficiencies
and upgrade our facilities on the production front. Our beverage plant’s daily output has increased by up to 8% due to the operational team’s success in improving production
yield while reducing wastages.

[MDA_P016]
During MCO, we were required to reduce our manpower capacity but our team’s excellent
efforts saw them managing to maintain up to 95% of planned capacity. Meanwhile, our roasting plant was relocated from Factory 1 to a newly-renovated facility at Factory 4. This new facility will
eventually house a fully-automated roasting machine which we plan to commission in FY2022. An automated hopper system
was also commissioned in all our multilane filling rooms to improve powder usage accuracy at our instant powder plant. The annual production capacity for the Group’s instant powder factory remains at 2.7 million cartons. The planned
retirement of two units of our 6-lane stick filling machines and its replacement with a high-speed 10-lane stick filling
machine has been deferred to FY2022. This deferment was due to the difficulty in bringing over the foreign commissioning
engineers because of travel restrictions.

[MDA_P017]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
As part of the Group plans to expand our factory space as well as venture into the manufacturing of flavouring and also the
roasting business, during the year under review, we acquired three properties as follows:
a)
a piece of land and factory building near our existing Plentong Johor Bahru plant at the cost of RM6.7 million;
b)
3 units of semi-detached factory at Setia Business Park II, Johor Bahru (which is earmarked for the flavouring
business) at the cost of RM7.4 million; and
c)
a vacant piece of land adjacent to our factory at Plentong, Johor Bahru at the cost of RM12.5 million. Power Root undertook a voluntary one-week halt at its instant powder production facility in Jalan Sri Plentong, Masai
in Johor Darul Takzim in January 2021 to facilitate sanitation works due to a COVID-19 infection case. This was after
an employee was tested as COVID-19 positive. While the halt was expected to result in the deferment of some export
shipments, we did not foresee any major disruption in the domestic market supply as we would be utilising outstanding
stocks to fulfil sales orders.

[MDA_P018]
At the same time, this served as a reminder for everyone to stay vigilant in maintaining
employees’ well-being, and highlighted the importance of abiding by the standard operating procedures to maintain
production efficiency and cleanliness. As part of those standard operating procedures, regular COVID-19 testing was
carried out in-house on an ongoing basis to ensure early detection and employee safety. The Group remains fully committed to leveraging on technology to drive process improvements and will continue to build on
our people’s skills and competencies to achieve our vision of long-term manufacturing excellence. FINANCIAL REVIEW
Revenue and Profit After Tax (“PAT”)
Local
Export
Revenue (RM’million)
165.2
144.0
177.4
208.7
For the financial year ended 31 March 2021 (“FYE 2021”), the Group recorded revenue of RM309.2 million, a decrease of
approximately 19.9% from the revenue of RM386.1 million recorded in the previous FYE 31 March 2020 (“FYE 2020”). This decrease was a result of lower local and export sales. As stated earlier, sales in MENA were affected by the COVID-19
pandemic as well as the imposition of value-added and sugar taxes which added to price pressures.

[MDA_P019]
The drop in sales in
non-GCC countries is also attributed to currency depreciation. For FYE 2021, the Group recorded PAT of RM28.3 million, a decrease of 45.3% from the PAT of RM51.7 million in FYE
2020. This reduction in PAT was due to lower sales as well as foreign exchange losses this year as against foreign exchange gains
in the preceding year. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d

[MDA_P020]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
Statement of financial position
FYE 2021
FYE 2020
(RM’000)
(RM’000)
Total Assets
348,726
376,573
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
265,529
253,261
Total Liabilities
82,725
122,835
Borrowings
8,447
Gearing (times)
0.003
0.03
The Total Assets of the Group decreased by RM27.8 million in FYE 2021 due to lower trade and other receivables and cash
and cash equivalents. The Total Liabilities of the Group decreased by RM40.1 million in FYE 2021 due mainly to a reduction in trade and other
payables. With a low gearing of 0.003 as at 31 March 2021, the Group’s financial position remains sound. DIVIDENDS
Dividend Per Share (“DPS”) (sen)
6.50
12.50
8.00
7.92
9.58
Note : adjusted pursuant to bonus issue completed on 23 July 2018
On 30 September 2020, the Group paid a first interim single tier dividend of 2.5 sen per ordinary share amounting to
RM10.5 million in respect of FYE 2021. This comprised a first interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen and a special interim
single tier dividend of 0.5 sen per ordinary share.

[MDA_P021]
On 8 January 2021, the Group paid a second interim single tier dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM8.4
million in respect of FYE 2021. On 9 April 2021, the Group paid a third interim single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM6.3 million
in respect of FYE 2021. On 28 May 2021, the Board approved a fourth interim single tier dividend of 0.5 sen per ordinary share amounting to
RM2.1 million in respect of FYE 2021 and this was paid on 12 July 2021. The Board did not recommend the payment of any final dividend in respect of the FYE 2021. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d

[MDA_P022]
Power Root Berhad
Registration Number: 200601013517 (733268-U)
Annual Report 2021
As such, total dividends paid for FYE 2021 is 6.5 sen per share amounting to RM27.4 million, representing a dividend
payout ratio of approximately 96.5%.
The Group’s dividend policy is to maintain a minimum of 50% dividend payout ratio in appreciation of shareholders’ loyalty
and participation in our growth journey.
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
With the emergence of new COVID-19 variants and resulting economic lockdowns being re-implemented globally, the
Group remains cautious on its prospects for the coming financial year.

[MDA_P023]
Domestically, the reimposition of the MCO restrictions which started in most of states of Malaysia from mid-January
2021 to February 2021 again resulted in shortened opening hours and lower consumer footfall traffic in supermarkets,
hypermarkets, convenience stores, food outlets and petrol kiosks. This also limited our ability to carry out product sampling
and promotion activities. The Group will continue to adapt to the current situation by being agile and in implementing innovative marketing tactics. This includes collaborating with strategic partners to enhance product awareness, leveraging on our wide customer base,
and enticing consumers to sample our products at home. Coupled with this, we will be concentrating on enhancing our social media and e-commerce platform advertising and
promotional activities aimed at solidifying and expanding on our consumer outreach. We will also continue with customised
advertising and promotional activities together with targeted sampling in retail outlets that allow it.

[MDA_P024]
Power Root will continue to pursue bottom line enhancement measures by optimising our sales force distribution locally
and abroad, increasing product coverage, improving on production efficiencies and launching new product variants to cater
to changing customer tastes. Ultimately, we trust our brand and the support of our loyal customer base. On a sadder note, Dato’ Low Chee Yen, our Executive Deputy Chairman passed away in March 2021. Dato’ Low was one
of Power Root’s founders and played an enormous part in driving the growth of the Group. He was instrumental in the
setting up of Power Root (M) Sdn Bhd and Power Root Marketing Sdn Bhd. On behalf of the Group, I extend our heartfelt
condolences to Dato’ Low’s family. On another note, we would also like to welcome Mr. Low Jun Lee, Dato’ Low’s son, to the Board as our new Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director, who was appointed on 30 April 2021. Finally, the Board would like to extend our heartfelt appreciation to all Power Root stakeholders. This has been a testing
year for all of us personally as well as business-wise.

[MDA_P025]
However, adversity has strengthened the strong bond among our
employees, partners and stakeholders as we worked tirelessly amid uncertainty to overcome all challenges while keeping
safe and healthy. We will face further challenges this coming year, but we are confident that Power Root will continue to
progress further with this invaluable support. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
cont’d