document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 37, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P005]
With the rising trend of contactless
payment to reduce the risk of transmission
of COVID-19 through physical interaction,
the Group has enhanced its very own
SDS mobile application to include
E-wallet feature. This E-wallet feature
allows consumers to complete their
transactions using contactless payments
at any of its outlets. The Group continues
to offer innovative solutions to provide
greater consumer convenience and
addressing the ever-changing consumers’
preferences. The Group has expanded its business
operations beyond Johor Bahru to the
Central Region of Peninsula Malaysia
during the financial year. Despite the
COVID-19 pandemic, the Group continues
to explore opportunities for growth and
has successfully set up two new outlets
at Nilai, Negeri Sembilan and Bangi,
Selangor. Wholesale Channel
The Group has launched a series of new
products such as banana slice cakes,
pandan chiffon cake and danish bread
with chocolate chips during the financial
year.
[MDA_P006]
RM2 concept stores has been
gaining prominence and popularity from
consumers in Malaysia in recent years,
this is especially so during the pandemic
period when the current economic outlook
is uncertain and consumers are more
conscious in their spending. The Group
has collaborated with these chain stores
and developed a range of products which
are sold in their stores. The Group further penetrated the market
in the Northern Region by establishing a
new distribution centre at Sungai Petani,
Kedah. With this expansion, the Group
wholesale distribution network is covering
10 states out of the 11 states in Peninsula
Malaysia. The Group aims to continue
its effort to expand its product range
and distribution network geographically,
enabling it to reach out for a wider
consumer base. ANNUAL REPORT 2021
[MDA_P028]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
KEY RISK FACTORS
The Group is cognisant of the importance that the investors and shareholders need to understand the types of risks that it is exposed
to and how these risks may impact the Group’s business and its operating performance during this pandemic period. The Management is consistently identifying anticipated or known risks that the Group is exposed to in which these risks will have a
material effect on the Group’s operations, performance, financial condition and liquidity. The Group’s risk management framework
covers risk identification, assessment and control activities such as monitoring, analysis, communication, internal control, action and
strategies. A continuous discussion of the plans or strategies is in place to make sure actions are taken to mitigate such risks.
[MDA_P029]
The
Group’s risks mitigation action plans include the following:
a)
performing due diligence on the nature, scope and complexity of the activities to identify key risk areas and risk mitigation
strategies;
b)
conducting review of its nature, current scope and activities to identify new risks which may arise; and
c)
analysing the impact of the activities on the overall risk profile of the Group, and whether there are adequate measures and
resources in place to mitigate the risks identified. Anticipated and Known Risk Profiles
Risks Description
Mitigating Measures
Food contamination
Being in the food manufacturing industry,
the Group is exposed to the risk of food
contamination as its food products
undergo numerous manufacturing
processes during its production. The
food ingredients are generally perishable
and are vulnerable to contamination if not
properly handled, stored or packed. The Group is taking the following steps to mitigate the food contamination risks:
1) All production staffs must undergo food handling classes.
[MDA_P030]
2) The internal quality assurance department are tasked to review and inspect our
storage facilities to ensure that the place and raw materials are kept in a clean and
acceptable condition. 3) The Group will monitor the quality of raw materials received from the suppliers. Any
sub-standard raw material discovered will be returned to the supplier promptly and
will not be used in the production process. 4) The Group entities have obtained third parties food safety certification which requires
periodic audit to be performed to ensure compliance with the food safety standards
and quality of the manufacturing process. ANNUAL REPORT 2021
[MDA_P031]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Anticipated and Known Risk Profiles (Cont’d)
Risks Description
Mitigating Measures
Disruption in the operations and
unplanned shutdowns
As most of our products are produced
by the Group internal manufacturing
facilities, any disruption in the operations
or unplanned shutdown would affect the
Group’s ability to generate revenue. Force majeure events such as the
COVID-19 pandemic can cause
disruption in operation due to unforeseen
factory shutdowns and mandatory
working-from-home arrangement will
require employees to work from home. The Group has taken up insurance policies to provide coverage against the risk of fire,
theft and personal accident for our workers. As our manufacturing plants are located at two different locations, in the case when one
location cannot operate, the other location can function as a backup manufacturing
facility for those affected products. By having this immediate relief, it will help to lessen
the impact as a result of disruption of operation in one location.
