document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": false, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
“
”
OVERVIEW & JOURNEY IN THE NEW NORMAL
From an operational angle, FYE 2022 has been a challenging year as the nation went through different
Movement Control Order (MCO) phases. The constant adjustment to the Group’s operating procedures
to ensure compliance with the Government’s Standard Operating Procedures (“SOPs”) was felt heavily
especially in the retail channel, owing to the fact that the Group has significant Food and Beverage
("F&B") components offering dine-in experiences for a variety of cuisines. Despite this challenge, the Group has managed to open 2 new outlets in Bandar Seri Putra, Selangor
and Taman Nusantara, Johor while the wholesale channel set up another distribution centre in Gua
Musang, Kelantan, bringing the Group’s total to 20 centres in 10 out of the 11 states in Peninsular
Malaysia. The Group’s journey in FYE 2022 was a continuing story of operating under lockdown conditions,
particularly in the early part of the financial year under review.
[MDA_P002]
Governmental SOPs to close all non-
essential businesses and services impacted the Group’s operations and potential earnings from the
retail channel as the retail outlets had to comply with certain SOPs including restricted dine-in, social
distancing, closure of schools, malls and non-essential sectors had also affected foot traffic. Although
the bakery section of the Group’s operations was classified as essential goods and was allowed to
operate, the impact to revenue stream from the café operations was dampened during this period. Part of the Group’s responsibility as a caring corporate citizen was to ensure the wellbeing of its
employees during this period. The Group participated in the employees’ vaccination program under
PIKAS to increase its employees’ vaccination rate and ensure the customers’ wellbeing and peace of
mind through this action. In addition, when market activities resumed, it also ensured that the Group
was ready to function at normal operational capability in the endemic stage. The Group pivoted its strategy to meet the pandemic challenge by introducing a digital solution to
meet market demand.
[MDA_P011]
KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
Among the key business opportunities that have presented itself to the Group include the influx of customers from
Singapore to the Johor outlets the moment international borders were reopened. The surge in human traffic reflected
the growth in demand from the F&B retail segment. The gradual easing into the new normal also presents an opportunity
for the Group to enhance its geographical footprint particularly in the Central Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new retail
outlets and the Northern Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new distribution centres. In fact, as recent as June 2022, the
Group has opened a new distribution centre in Alor Setar, Kedah. The R&D arm of the Group continues to introduce new
F&B offerings to meet the customers’ tastes and expectations. In the meantime, the Group is cognisant of the risks and actively anticipate known business risks to the Group through
its Risk Management framework, which is discussed in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control on page
046 of this Annual Report.
[MDA_P012]
Connecting business risks with its strategy for Sustainability is key in understanding the Group’s
framework on Sustainability. The Sustainability Statement for the Group can be found on page 019 of this Annual Report. Meanwhile, the Group identifies the main known risks from three main areas, which are People, Marketplace
and Industry. People
In any given business, the main challenge has been and will always be the people who turn the wheels of the business. In the case of the Group, we foresee that the flow of talent to a neighbouring country such as Singapore would increase
as the economy picks up and the borders have reopened. The attraction of talent to Singapore is purely economic due to
the exchange rates between the two nations’ currencies. The departure of talent has left a vacuum in the employment
market with many outlets facing severe shortage of front-line staff. In contrast to this, the freeze on hiring foreign labour during the MCO has resulted in manpower shortages for the factory
production line. During the course of this financial year, the management had to relook into production processes to
mitigate this issue.
[MDA_P013]
Marketplace
In the space of the return to the new normal, new F&B retail outlets have been growing like mushrooms after the rain. Competition for market share and dominance has now become stiffer than before. Some of the risks in new market
segments are product dominance as there is a duplicity of products in a highly competitive market. The improvement in logistics in the endemic period has also seen an increase in overseas quality brands which are
brought in from franchising businesses. The digital nature of e-commerce platforms which were the mainstay during
the pandemic has also posted new challenges in the shape of online sales on a regular basis to gain a larger foothold
in the market. In addition to this, individual and standalone businesses have also surged in popularity with their
homemade products that are marketed on social media. All these contribute to a more dynamic marketplace with
increased competition for the attention of the man in the street. Industry
One of the direct impacts of the endemic and global events has brought a new wave of cost-pushed inflation to our
shores.
