document_id: MDA_3662_MFLOUR_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 8, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
Our Group’s
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation (“EBITDA”) from continuing operations
after fair value loss arising from remeasurement of
contingent consideration receivable and provision
for profi t guarantee payment of RM77.87 million
and RM15.00 million respectively, decreased by
20.6% to RM123.15 million in the current fi nancial
year as compared to RM155.10 million previously. Review of Operation
In 2021, in spite of the challenges faced from
COVID-19 pandemic with several lockdowns in
the country, rising cost of raw material and low
utilisation of capacity, our Group’s revenue grew
by 14.5% to RM2.43 billion mainly due to higher
sales volume and selling prices. The grains sales
volume was 18% lower than previous year due to
the lower demand of feeds. Despite the operating
losses from the grains business, the performance
from fl our milling business had more than offset
the losses resulting in the Group’s operating profi t
increasing to RM183.25 million.
[MDA_P004]
The Group’s share of profi t from the joint venture
in Indonesia, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia
(“BFMI”) amounted to RM8.2 million as compared
to a share of profi t of RM1.0 million in the preceding
year. The higher share of profi t is mainly driven by
increased sales volume and better margins earned. Amidst positive progress in the fl our and grains
trading segment, we will continue our efforts to
drive production effi ciency through better fl our
extraction and blending process. The Group’s share of loss from joint venture, DTSB
stood at RM10.47 million for the 7 months ended
31 December 2021. The 12 months results of DTSB
Group in 2021 amounted to a loss of RM57.27
million as compared to RM88.42 million in 2020
mainly due to recognition of deferred tax income of
RM36.02 million arising from unabsorbed tax losses
and unutilised capital allowances as compared to
RM9.22 million in the preceding year. Despite the immense challenges in the poultry
integration segment in 2021, we are continuously
implementing progressive efforts to improve feeds
quality, better farm-house hygiene and higher bio-
security controls to mitigate future spread of diseases
and improve broilers quality.
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2021 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Anticipated or Known Risks
Food safety and compliance to standards are top
priorities for us as a food manufacturer as usage
of fl our and poultry is very wide and diverse and it
cut across different cultural background, race and
religion. To ensure our customers and consumers
can use products produced by us without any
worry or doubt, we have implemented Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) in
all our manufacturing facilities. At the same time,
all our products are halal certifi ed by Department
of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”) and are
subject to annual compliance audit. Due to the nature of the fl our industry which is
highly dependent on global wheat prices, we will
continually monitor the global wheat prices to
ensure that the fl our business continues to remain
profi table. Due to the nature of the poultry industry which
faces inherent risk of avian diseases outbreak,
we are always vigilant in managing our farms with
comprehensive bio-security measures in place.
[MDA_P007]
In summary, we are confi dent that based on our
track record and leading position in the fl our and
poultry industries, our Group will be able to mitigate
such risks with our proactive and preventive
measures put in place. Outlook and Prospects for 2022
As food manufacturing is our core business, we are
responsible to feed people in the countries in which
we operate but challenges of uncertain global
economic environment, volatile commodity prices
and foreign exchange rates arising from COVID-19
pandemic will have an impact on the Group’s
performance. Due to these challenges, the Board will be taking
proactive and preventive measures to mitigate the
uncertainties on the Group’s performance in 2022. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONT’D)
