document_id: MDA_5008_HARISON_2021
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": false, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": false}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 9, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Performance
Review
-Staff Annual
Dinner
-Employee
Events
-Knowledge
Sharing
Sessions
-Management
Meetings
-Satisfaction
Survey
-Conventions
-Roadshows
-Marketing
Materials
-Store Openings
-Events and
Seminars
-Meetings
-Briefings and
Trainings
-Attend
Dialogues/Semi
nars Organised
by Bursa
Securities
-Annual General
Meeting
-Company
Website
-Annual Report
-Quarterly
Reports
-Company
Announcements
Principals
Financiers
Employees
Customers
Government
/ Regulators
Investors
Engagement
Method
Stakeholder
Group
[MDA_P002]
5) Materiality Assessment
Our sustainability process begins with the identification of material topics. To determine if an aspect is
material, we assessed its potential impact on the economy, environment and society and its influence on the
stakeholders. We have identified these material topics for reporting based on the significance of our EES and economic
impacts and the degree of influence where we see the most potential for creating maximum value for our
shareholders and stakeholders. The identified topics are then prioritised. A comprehensive list of material
topics are plotted against the matrix as described below, which shows the importance of each topic to the
business and to our stakeholders. The materiality assessment was guided by inputs and perspectives from our Management. Going forward,
materiality review will be conducted every year, incorporating inputs gathered from stakeholders’
engagements. The matrix below represents the results of our materiality study. There has been no significant changes in the Group’s operations in the current year that impacted the
review for materiality assessment.
[MDA_P004]
6) Managing Sustainability
ECONOMIC
Financial Performance
We are committed to achieving economic sustainability growth for our shareholders. We conduct our
business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with high ethical business
practices and good corporate governance. As part of Harrisons’ journey to incorporate a sustainable business practices in the long term, the Group is
committed to a holistic approach to business management. Harrisons believes that focusing on financial
sustainability is critical. The Group’s financial review and outlook are elaborated in the Management Discussion and Analysis
section of this Annual Report. Managing Expectations of Principals
Managing expectations of principals was identified as one of the most important material issues across the
Group. Presently, Harrisons has over 200 principals, and distributes approximately 11,000 product items to
over 10,000 accounts spread across Malaysia. Harrisons’ objective is to focus on its distribution business and aims to maintain its position as a leading
distributor.
[MDA_P005]
As such, knowing exactly what principals expect from us improves our bottom line and
strengthens our reputation in the long term. Engaging with our principals regularly enable us to understand
their needs and expectations, identify gaps and enable us to make informed assessments and formulate
strategies for execution to bridge such gaps. We will be completing our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system soon. This new ERP system is
expected to enhance the efficiencies of our business processes and assist us in managing our businesses
more effectively. It will also allow us to meet the speedy information demands by our principals and
customers. As for our suppliers, active engagement is done on a regular basis to align our requirements and
expectations with them, thereby ensuring sufficient resources being obtained and seamless execution of
our operations. Managing Our Customers
We aim to provide products/services which meet customers satisfaction and exceed their expectations. We
encourage our customers to provide their feedback. The feedback obtained is reviewed and relevant
follow-up actions are performed to improve customer satisfaction.
[MDA_P006]
While meeting our customers’ satisfaction and requirements, the Group is also mindful that an equilibrium
needs to be achieved with the appropriate strategies in sustaining our business. In managing our
customers, the Group has implemented policies to ensure that credit sales of products and services are
made to customers with an appropriate credit standing or with an appropriate credit history.
[MDA_P009]
The Directors’ and Employees Code of Ethics provides commitment to ethical values through key
requirements relating to conflict of interest, confidential information, insider information, protection of the
Group’s assets and compliance with law and regulations.
