document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2022
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 68, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
CORPORATE
STRATEGY: SAIL’22
OUR TWO
ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OUR THREE
STRATEGIC LEVERS
CREATE A
WINNING
CULTURE
STRENGTHEN
THE CORE
‘Grow in Mainstream’ with
Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and
Carlsberg Smooth Draught
‘Win in Each Store’
with better in-store
execution
‘Fund the Journey’ by
delivering efficiencies and
building growth capabilities
POSITION
FOR GROWTH
‘Go Big in Premium’ with 1664, Somersby
Cider, Connor’s Stout Porter and Asahi
‘Build New Revenue Streams’ with
Alcohol-Free Brews and e-Commerce
DELIVER
VALUE FOR
SHAREHOLDERS
Achieve ‘Growth in Net Profit’
Deliver stable dividend yield for
shareholders
DEFEND
OUR
LICENCE
TO
OPERATE
ABOUT SAIL’22
SAIL’22 was a seven-year (2016-2022) corporate strategy launched
by the Carlsberg Group, building upon our purpose of Brewing for a
Better Today and Tomorrow. SAIL’22 was spearheaded by the three strategic levers of Strengthen
the Core, Position for Growth and Deliver Value for Shareholders. Two enablers underpinned these three levers – Create a Winning
Culture throughout our organisation, and Defend Our Licence to
Operate for business sustainability.
[MDA_P002]
2022 marked the final year of the SAIL’22 strategy and the transition
to SAIL’27, which will see us through the next five years. HIGHLIGHTS OF SAIL’22
SAIL’22 guided us as we navigated through the COVID-19 storm. We
deployed strategies to adapt while ensuring that the priorities of
SAIL’22 remained intact. Key to this was our strong focus on driving efficiencies and reinvesting
our resources into innovation for our brands during the pandemic. This
helped us capture growth as we emerged from the pandemic, and we
are now a stronger, more resilient and more sustainable brewer. Our mainstream brands, Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and Carlsberg
Smooth Draught, continue to be the preferred choice of consumers
while our premium brands achieved even greater traction, supported
by our strong commitment to driving product innovation. We managed to set historic highs for profits and revenue in 2022,
exceeding our pre-pandemic achievements. We also delivered
consistent returns to shareholders’ funds, i.e. 181.1% in 2022 as
compared to 64.1% in 2016. This was alongside the meaningful
progress that we made on our sustainability agenda.
[MDA_P007]
After a two-year hiatus, we resumed the country’s biggest and longest-running golf tournament
– the Carlsberg Golf Classic. Over 3,800 avid golfers from 32 participating clubs took part in
the tournament nationwide. It was complemented with an inaugural golf festival with special
golf-and-beer-drinking activities to expand our consumer base among golfing enthusiasts. THE STRATEGIC LEVERS OF SAIL’22
STRENGTHEN THE CORE
We have come a long way since the first Carlsberg
beer was brewed in Denmark 175 years ago. We
are now one of the world’s top three brewers, and
we export to over 140 countries globally. As we sail forward, it is our top priority to strengthen
our core business by constantly introducing
innovations to our flagship brands, the Carlsberg
Danish Pilsner and the Carlsberg Smooth Draught,
while we continue to pursue excellence in execution
and reinvest resources gained from cost efficiencies
under our Funding the Journey programme.
[MDA_P010]
WHO WE ARE
SAILING
FORWARD
PRIORITIES
AND COMMITMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Integrated Annual Report 2022
LEADERSHIP
CREATING
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Challenges Faced
Despite intensive marketing and promotional activities, sales did
not recover to pre-pandemic levels as our mainstream brands
were affected by the slower-than-anticipated reopening of
on-trade businesses, some of which were permanently closed.
Sailing Forward
[MDA_P011]
Going forward, we will focus on driving larger campaigns through the
amplification of our key activation platforms to attract and retain
consumers who respond better to experiential-based marketing
campaigns. This is aligned with the growth ambition of Carlsberg
to strengthen its brand equity through consumer engagement and
digital marketing as outlined in the SAIL’27 strategy. Win in Each Store with better in-store execution
Excellence in execution of distribution and in-store sales is a
fundamental component of strengthening our core. This is how
we deliver portfolio growth – by stepping up and continuously
improving our execution capabilities, aiming to excel at point of
purchase and to master digital, data and processes. In 2022, we enhanced our point-of-purchase execution by
increasing the efficiencies in our sales execution and by
offering winning portfolios in both Malaysia and Singapore. We continued the rigorous implementation of FIT (Focus,
Implement, Track) to ensure that our product availability,
pricing, promotion executions, placement and perfect serve
were delivered on time and accurately across all on- and off-
trade channels.
