document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 29, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
DOMESTIC REVIEW
he global economic situation weighed significantly on
Malaysia’s economy which was already impacted by
the increased inflation, unemployment and shrinking
incomes. To manage the erosion of the ringgit and
growing inflation, Bank Negara Malaysia remained resolute
in maintaining the overnight policy rate (“OPR”) at 3.00% for
much of the financial year 2024. Malaysia’s overall economic performance fluctuated in
2023, with the Gross Domestic Product recording 3.7%, a
sharp fall from 8.7% in the previous year. Adding to this is
the weakening of the Malaysian ringgit to as low as RM4.70
to the US dollar in December 2023. Malaysia’s economy
experienced a slowdown due to weakened external demand
and a reduction in commodity production, affecting the local
market purchasing power. Compounding this was the impact
on the business’s supply chain, higher costs of raw materials,
ingredient costs as well as pricing of products. Notwithstanding this, there has been a gradual uptrend in
the local operating environment, with business travel and
international and domestic tourism taking off.
[MDA_P006]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Total assets recorded an increase of 19.5% to RM193.4 million during FY2024. This was largely attributable to the increase in capital expenditures, including the
acquisition of three parcels of land at Mukim Tebrau, Daerah Johor Bahru, totalling
RM14.4 million for expanding manufacturing facilities in future. The Group’s strong financial position is also reflected in its cash and bank balance
of RM30.0 million in FY2024, representing an 8.9% increase over FY2023. This
was achieved by the improvement of revenue and profit, and a conservative
capital management and capital expenditure policy, enabling it to mitigate any
unexpected financial situations and pivot to capitalise on expansion activities
where needed. SDS is committed to driving value creation for the benefit of our shareholders. On
this note, the dividend declared for FY2024 was 1.65 sen compared to 1.25 sen in
FY2023, an increase of 32.0%. The Group would like to express its gratitude to its loyal shareholders for their
trust and confidence in the Group’s management and operational excellence in
producing such a strong financial outcome.
[MDA_P008]
The Group’s healthy revenue is reflected
in its growth of 14.2% from RM 283.7
million in FY2023 to RM 324.1 million
in FY2024. The increase in profit before
tax (“PBT”) is mainly due to the increase
in revenue and improvement in gross
profit margin, from 31.5% in FY2023
to 34.0% in FY2024. This was further
supported by an increase in sales price
and stabilisation of raw material prices. This has in turn, reflected on the Group’s
profit after tax (“PAT”) attributable to
Owners of the Company of RM32.6
million in FY2024 as compared to
RM24.5 million in FY2023, representing
an improvement of 32.7%. The Group continued its strategic
approach
by
strengthening
its
partnership
collaboration
with
local businesses and vendors alike,
sponsoring or collaborating with their
local events. As part of the Group’s commitment
to minimise its carbon footprint in
support of the environment, the Group
has embarked on a solar renewable
energy initiative at its two existing
manufacturing plants - one in Johor
Bahru, which has been completed and
another in Seremban, which is currently
in progress.
[MDA_P024]
This, and other various strategic measures employed
will translate to more accurate profit realisation from its
sales channels moving forward. KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
AND CHALLENGES
ur 37 years of experience in this industry has
held us in good stead, particularly through
the many turbulent economic times. It has
taught us the importance of scanning the
horizon, recognising signs of potential opportunities and
challenges, and the need for business agility to realign our
business strategies where needed. Our business expansion strategies including opening new
retail outlets in strategic locations, increasing the fleet size
of our wholesale segment, and introducing innovative and
creative product offerings, have contributed significantly
to our improved market share. Invariably, this also exposes
us to potential business risks. Cognisant of the impacts of such potential risks, we have
in place a robust and comprehensive risk management
framework, encompassing risk identification, impact
assessment and mitigation plans.
[MDA_P025]
Such risks are keen
competition for market space, rising inflation, high food
costs, liberalisation of fuel subsidies, labour shortage and
escalating concerns on environmental sustainability. Given the gradual return to economic normalcy, we
anticipate a heightened flow of tourists to the Klang Valley
and of Singaporean visitors to Johor Bahru. Certainly, while there are risks to be anticipated, we feel
there are larger opportunities on the immediate horizon
to support the achievement of the Group’s commercial
objectives and the sustainability of its operations for the
future. Specific details on SDS’s risk management are provided in
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
of this Annual Report. O
