document_id: MDA_2828_CIHLDG_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 27, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Mission
Our mission is to develop sustainable products with innovative fulfilment processes that minimise environmental impact while
delivering significant value to all stakeholders. We are dedicated to creating long-term benefits for our shareholders, employees,
customers, and the communities we serve, fostering a future where business success and sustainability go hand in hand. Principal Activities Of Our Group
• Blending and packing vegetable-based edible oils. • Marketing, branding, and merchandising consumer-packaged products in domestic and international markets. • Trading and manufacturing tap and sanitary ware products. Key Markets
• Asia (including Oceania)
• Africa
• Middle East
Strategies In Creating Value
• Leveraging Core Competencies: Capitalising on our core strengths and strategic advantages to maintain a competitive edge. • Identifying Market Opportunities: Keeping informed on market developments and evolving customer needs to seize emerging
opportunities.
[MDA_P010]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
REVIEW OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating Activities
Despite these challenging times, the Group is satisfied with the current period’s performance. The Group’s Earnings Before Interest
and Taxation (EBIT) of RM139.11 million a 26.84% decrease from the RM190.14 million recorded in the previous period. This is
in line with the decrease in sales throughout the year. Overall, the Group’s cash conversion cycle has also seen impressive improvements. Total cash conversion cycle days have gone
from 36 days in FY2023 to 43 days in FY2024. Besides the Group’s product diversification and margin improvement strategies, there were no further significant developments in
the operating activities during the financial year. The Group takes pride in its commitment to safeguarding employees’ well-being by consistently maintaining full take-home salaries,
annual bonuses and timely salary increments throughout the challenging past years. This dedication remains resolute even in
anticipation of future challenges and uncertainties.
[MDA_P011]
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Group faces significant foreign exchange risks due to its extensive international operations, with approximately 95% of its
products exported globally each year. This high level of exposure to currency fluctuations poses a potential impact on the Group’s
financial performance. To mitigate this risk, the Group actively manages its foreign exchange exposure by utilising forward
currency contracts wherever feasible. These contracts manage exchange rate risks and reduce the uncertainty associated with
currency movements, safeguarding the Group’s profitability and ensuring more stable financial outcomes. Country Risk
The financial performance of the Group is heavily influenced by the political, economic, and regulatory conditions in the countries
where its products are imported. Adverse developments in these areas, such as political instability, economic downturns, or
sudden regulatory changes, could lead to significant challenges including contract defaults, difficulties in collection, bad debts,
and potential loss of market share.
[MDA_P012]
To mitigate these risks, the Group not only closely monitors the situation in importing countries on a weekly or even daily basis
but also relies on strong, long-standing relationships and an extensive market network within these regions. These deep-rooted
connections provide valuable insights into local conditions and foster trust, which help navigate challenges and reduce the
likelihood of adverse outcomes. By leveraging these established relationships and networks, the Group is better positioned to
anticipate and respond to potential risks, ensuring more stable and secure operations in its international markets. FUTURE PROSPECTS, POSSIBLE TRENDS AND OUTLOOK
EDIBLE OIL DIVISION
Palm Oil Supply Pressures - Impact of Climate Crisis on Palm Oil
i)
Weather
In 2024, CPO supply will be heavily influenced by weather conditions linked to the climate crisis. Malaysia’s palm oil production
is expected to enter a high-output phase starting in March, which could potentially lower prices. Should a strong La Niña event
occur, production might increase further, with estimates suggesting Malaysia’s output could reach up to 19 million tonnes.
[MDA_P016]
Under President Joko Widodo’s administration, the palm oil blend in biodiesel has progressively increased,
moving from B15 in 2015 to B35 in 2023. The B50 mandate is expected to further reduce palm oil exports, tightening global
supply and supporting CPO prices. As the government plans to increase the biodiesel blend further, this will likely boost domestic
palm oil consumption, impacting the global availability of CPO and exerting upward pressure on prices. b) Palm Oil against Alternative Vegetable Oils
The demand for palm oil is under increasing strain as the price gap between CPO and alternative vegetable oils like soybean
and canola oil continues to narrow. This tightening price spread reduces palm oil’s competitive edge, especially against these
substitutes, limiting the potential for significant price hikes. Additionally, heightened competition from other edible oils and large
stockpiles in key destination markets are likely to keep CPO prices from rising substantially. Even with these challenges, palm oil continues to hold a dominant position in the global oils and fats market, accounting for 32% of
global production and 53% of exports.
