document_id: MDA_2658_AJI_2024
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 56, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Inauguration of
Effluent Treatment
Management
(SALAM)
Corporate name
was changed to
Ajinomoto
(Malaysia)
Sdn Bhd
Company name
was changed to
Ajinomoto
(Malaysia) Berhad
as the public
company
Commencement of
AJI-NO-MOTO®
plant operation
Awarded HALAL
Certification
Establishment
of ASEAN
Application
Centre
Launch of AJI-SHIO®
Table Topping
Seasoning
• Launch of PAL SWEET®
Sweetener
• Launch of Hydrolysed
Vegetable Protein (HVP)
Powder
Launch of
AJI-PLUS™
Blended Flavour
Enhancer
Launch of
AJI.MIX™
Blended
Seasoning
Awarded
ISO 9001
Certification
Launch of
TUMIX® Stock
Seasoning
• Launch of
VONO®
Instant Soup
• Launch of
ACTIVA™ TG
Series
Awarded
OSHAS 18001
Certification
50th
Anniversary
of Ajinomoto
(Malaysia)
Berhad
Establishment
of Chicken
Meat
Powder Plant
Hydrolysed
Vegetable
Protein (HVP)
process
improvement
Launch of
Seri-Aji® Menu
Specific
Seasoning
Launch of Slim Up™
Sweetener
Awarded
HACCP
Certification
Awarded
ISO 14001
Certification
Launch of
AJINOMOTO®
Chicken Stock
Launch of
AJI-AROMA™
Flavour Enhancing
Seasoning
Establishment
of Ajinomoto
(Malaya)
Co., Ltd
Launch of AJI-EKI™
(Hydrolysed
Vegetable Protein
Liquid)
• Establishment of Production
2 (seasonings and food
production line) factory
• Launch of AJIMATE™ Taste
Enhancing Seasoning
• Awarded AJI-NO-MOTO®
Product Certification
• Launch of
Rasa Sifu™
All in One
Seasoning
• Launch of
aminoVITAL®
Jellly Flavoured
Drink with
Amino Acids
• Launch of Seri-Aji®
Fritter Seasoned
Flour
• Launch of Seri-Aji®
Banana Fritter Flour
Establishment of new
plant at Bandar Enstek,
Negeri Sembilan, as a
'Global
Customer-Centric Halal
Food Company'
• Launch of Seri-Aji® Curry Fried Rice Seasoning
and Seri-Aji® Chicken Soup Seasoning Powder
Launch of Ajinomoto Chicken Gyoza
Launch of AJIRISE™ K and AJIRISE™ UM
History & Milestones
Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad (“the Company”), established in 1961, began its journey in Malaysia as a distributor of
monosodium glutamate (“MSG”) under the renowned AJI-NO-MOTO® brand.
[MDA_P005]
Being a responsible corporate citizen, the Company is actively
implementing strategies to meet Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) requirements and standards in its business
plans and policies. As a responsible employer, policies are regularly reviewed and shared with employees to uphold its
ongoing commitment to be an employer of choice. In March 2024, the Company achieved FSSC22000 certification in respect of its compliance to manufacturing processes
and food safety management systems, including hazard analysis, risk assessment, and stringent operational controls
across its entire production and supply chain. This significant accomplishment reflects its commitment to the highest
standards of food safety and quality in operations. Our Product Range
Consumer Products
The Company continued its dedication to develop products that cater to a diverse range of consumer needs. Its extensive
range of seasoning and food products, including chicken stock, menu seasoning, pepper, sweetener, and jelly drink with
amino acids, showcases its commitment to offer a variety of quality food products.
[MDA_P006]
In 2023, the Company introduced two new variants of Seri Aji seasoning: Seri-Aji® Curry Fried Rice and Chicken Soup
Seasoning Powder, offering delicious, simple and convenient cooking solutions for household meals. Additionally, the
Company expanded its product line with “Ajinomoto” Chicken Gyoza, bringing the taste of authentic Japanese cuisine
to consumer as well as food service markets. These new additions highlight the Company’s commitment to deliver
products meeting diverse consumers’ needs. The Company’s range of products are distributed across Malaysia through direct sales forces and distributors, retailers,
wholesalers and e-commerce channels and agents in overseas markets. Furthermore, the Company’s marketing efforts
include social media and digital platforms, effectively reaching consumers of food seasoning and food products. Using
such platforms facilitates continuous improvement in interactions with the market and consumers to better understand
and respond to their needs.
[MDA_P007]
AJINOMOTO (MALAYSIA) BERHAD 196101000252 (4295-W)
Annual Report 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d.)
Industrial and Food Service Products
In addition to its consumer product line, the Company also offers a comprehensive range of industrial products for the
food manufacturing and food service industries. The product portfolio spans diverse categories, including taste and
flavour-enhancing products, binders, and texture improvers. They are marketed under the brand names AJIMATE®, AJI-
AROMA® (referred to as “TENCHO” product category) and ACTIVA®, and are widely utilized in various processed foods,
such as instant noodles, soups, snacks, sauces, dairy products, processed meats, and processed seafood. With a robust global presence, the Company serves a diverse clientele across Asia, Central and South America, Middle
East, Oceania and Africa. Leveraging multiple distribution and export channels, the Company efficiently distributes and
exports its products, meeting the needs of food service and industrial clients both locally and internationally.
