document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2021
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 55, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CORPORATE
STRATEGY: SAIL’22
OUR TWO
ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OUR THREE
STRATEGIC LEVERS
DEFEND OUR
LICENCE
TO OPERATE
CREATE A
WINNING
CULTURE
STRENGTHEN
THE CORE
POSITION
FOR GROWTH
DELIVER
VALUE FOR
SHAREHOLDERS
“Go Big in Premium” with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
Somersby Cider, Asahi Super Dry and
Connor’s Stout Porter
“Innovate With Digital” to enhance the role of
digitalisation in our operations
Achieve “Growth in Net Profit”
Deliver Stable Dividend Yield for Shareholders
“Grow in Mainstream” with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and
Carlsberg Smooth Draught
“Win in Each Store” with better in-store execution
“Funding the Journey” by delivering efficiencies in
Operating Expenses and Value Management
[MDA_P010]
We are happy to
report that the new variant has almost achieved
its full-year 2022 volume target in just three
months since launch, and without cannibalising
the 1664 Blanc, which continues to grow. Carlsberg Singapore is also set to launch the
1664 Rosé in 2022. In Malaysia, the 1664 Blanc brand brought
French and Malaysian cuisine together during
the lockdowns through its Bon Appetit-lah
campaign. Five unique French-Malaysian fusion
recipes were created by French chef Nathalie of
Nathalie Gourmet Studio and Malaysian chef
Isadora Chai of Bistro à Table for consumers to
try on their own at home by referring to step-
by-step video demonstrations. A gastronomic
cook-off competition between the two chefs
was also featured on the brand’s social media
platform to drive reach and engagement amid
the lockdown. Somersby Cider, Malaysia and Singapore’s
best-selling cider brand, released a new variant
– Somersby Watermelon Cider – in March to
further entrench its position in the cider market. This innovation is also doing well, becoming
the second best-selling variant in our Somersby
portfolio within a few months of launch.
[MDA_P015]
Our Business
Message from Our Leaders
Creating Sustainable Value
Delivering Strong Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The Group reported a net profit of RM201.0
million for the full financial year ended
31 December 2021 (FY2021), an increase of
23.9% compared to RM162.2 million, on the
back of flat revenue of RM1.8 billion. The Group’s top-line was impacted by lower
sales due to the suspension of brewery
operations and several restrictions during the
lockdowns in both Malaysia and Singapore. Its bottom-line growth was mainly driven
by stringent cost controls, lower sales and
administration expenses, coupled with better
premium mix. In Malaysia, profit from operations grew by
39.4% to RM188.8 million in FY2021, compared
to the year before. Revenue declined by 3.6%
to RM1.21 billion, and despite the 2.5-month
shutdown of the brewery, we managed
to sustain a satisfactory performance by
implementing revenue management and driving
premiumisation.
[MDA_P017]
In Sri Lanka, the Group’s associate company,
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC, registered growth
in share of profits of RM15.2 million in FY2021
compared to RM14.9 million the previous year,
mainly as a result of the reopening of the
country’s economy. DELIVER STABLE DIVIDEND YIELD FOR SHAREHOLDERS
In our commitment to delivering sustainable shareholder value, the Board has proposed a final
single-tier dividend of 46 sen per ordinary share for FY2021, subject to shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. This is equivalent to a RM140.6 million payment of the Group’s
FY2021 net profit. The total declared and proposed dividend for FY2021 is 56 sen or equivalent to
RM171.2 million, an increase of 40% versus FY2020. The Board continued to exercise prudence in conserving cash and protecting the business. As such, our dividend policy prioritised business sustainability while continuing to deliver
shareholder value. We took into account prospects and capital requirements of the business, as well
as possible expansion strategies. Our cash flow and balance sheet remained strong. We have reduced our borrowings and strengthened
our net cash position.
[MDA_P024]
For instance, the Group had implemented
enhancements on the existing Flexi Working
Arrangements (FWA), including Work-From-
Home, Flexi Working Hours and also Time Off
arrangements. This FWA policy aims to support
the needs of the employees as they go through
different phases of their lives. By promoting a
flexible workplace, we believe that it will lead
to increased levels of employee engagement,
health and wellbeing of employees and
ultimately create a high performing workforce
who feels empowered and valued. In addition, the upskilling of employees and
the grooming of future leaders remained an
important strategic thrust. To read more about our people priorities, please
refer to pages 58 to 62 of this Integrated Report.
[MDA_P027]
There were also plans
to impose a federal-level requirement on all
coffeeshops and restaurants to obtain a licence
to sell beer that would have severely affected
the industry. This plan has since been shelved,
and we are thankful to the Ministry of Finance
for stepping in to remedy the matter. TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO
We believe that our business and sustainability
performance go hand in hand. One cannot thrive
without the other. We conduct our business in a
way that is sustainable over the long term, as
well as optimise financial returns in the short
term. We are convinced that our commitment to
sustainability bolstered our resilience through
another very difficult year. COVID-19 is just
one of the major crises the country faces. The
extreme weather, with floods and mini-tornados,
we experienced in different parts of Malaysia in
2021 underlines the need for urgent action to
tackle climate change. No one company can
tackle this global challenge alone – we need
businesses, governments, non-governmental
organisations and civil society to come together
for a better tomorrow.
