document_id: MDA_7237_PWROOT_2024
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 18, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
meet their demand for high quality beverages. We also
know that it is crucial for us to be agile and to adapt
in a competitive beverage market with unpredictable
consumer behaviour. Constant change is required, be it
in ways we engage customers, target consumers, create
marketing interest, or provide increased product choices. The Group’s strategies will continue to evolve as we seek
continued business growth. THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Economic uncertainty, exacerbated by a weak Ringgit,
global conflicts and moderate domestic demand in
household spending, contributed to slower growth this
financial year. Consumers in Malaysia are struggling
with increasing costs of living, particularly in urban
areas. Such uneasiness was reflected by weak
consumer sentiments as the public tightened their
spending in response to near-term concerns, as well
as in anticipation of on-going government economic
restructuring aimed at long-term growth.
[MDA_P002]
Power Root is mindful of the delicate balance between
maintaining our market position and ﬁne margins even
as our business costs, including foreign exchange
pressures, commodities pricing, and operational
expenses have been increasing. The Group’s growth strategy will focus on continuous
improvement on operational efﬁciencies by tapping on
technology to streamline processes and increase agility
while managing costs and resources across all areas. At the same time, we are actively seeking opportunities
to grow existing markets while penetrating new
markets. As such, the Group is excited to have signed
up distribution agreements with two major partners
in Thailand and KSA in FY 2024 which facilitate our
overseas expansion. DOMESTIC ACTIVITIES
MARKETING AND BRANDING
Marketing is an integral component of Power Root’s
activities, especially in a competitive market with
abundant consumer choices and wavering brand loyalty. Power Root’s marketing campaigns are product-driven
as we have very distinct customer segments. The Group
invests heavily in building our product brands through
marketing campaigns across a spectrum of activities.
[MDA_P003]
To
reach out to consumers, we use traditional and digital
media platforms, in-store activities and promotions, and
run campaigns which attract attention to our brands. We
participate in joint events where we are able to promote
brand awareness and strengthen brand associations. Our campaigns are ﬁt for purpose with some aimed at
building general awareness and visibility for our brands,
and others more targeted to reach a selected audience. Brand ambassadors are chosen in the ﬁrm belief that
they will add value and eyeballs to Power Root products. As we move to attract younger consumers, we are
increasingly promoting our products where Generation Z
(those born in the 1990s and 2000s) are active, including
social media channels and inﬂuencer space, with an
emphasis on fun, excitement and edginess. It is about engaging customers, and the Group’s
marketing strategy will continue to evolve as we focus on
connecting with our customers. NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
The proliferation of cafés and coffee chains, particularly
in cities and larger towns, has given rise to connoisseurs
who are more discerning when it comes to the coffee and
tea they indulge in.
[MDA_P004]
This is true especially among younger
consumers with more adventurous palates. On-going
product development will continue to be vital in attracting
such consumers in a ﬂourishing beverage market. For
FY 2024, Power Root introduced a variety of additional
choices to our family of products across different brands. In Malaysia, we extended our Frenché Roast can drinks
variant by launching Frenché Roast Double Mocha and
Frenché Roast Nutty Hazelnut flavours. Per’l Kacip
Fatimah Kolagen Café Hazelnut (in both can and instant
powder forms) is now available under our Per’l range,
while Ah Huat Gao Siew Dai (31g instant powder pack)
caters to those who love their coffee rich but a little less
sweet. This product was launched predominantly for the
Singaporean market. Other new instant powder lines include Alicafé TAG Hazel
Nut (36g) which was introduced in Malaysia, while Alicafé
Indulgence Originale (18g) and Alicafé Indulgence Salted
Caramel (18g) became available in our export market. For tea lovers in Malaysia, there is now Jom Teh (18g),
a 3-in-1 premix made with 100% Ceylonese tea, which
is positioned to entice teh tarik drinkers.
[MDA_P005]
Meanwhile,
chocolate malt lovers now have the option of picking up
Oligo Choco Malt Calcium (200ml) in sleeve packs from
the shelves. EXPORT ACTIVITIES
MENA
Power Root undertook a major internal restructuring
exercise for our MENA sales and distribution operations
in FY 2024 aimed at building up our brand presence and
[MDA_P006]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
market share in the region. This was achieved through a
three-pronged approach across personnel, processes and
systems to improve exports and efﬁciencies in the region. Our main priority was to ensure that we have a good
experienced team in place with renewed emphasis
on talent recruitment and management. The regional
leadership team was reshufﬂed in Q4 FY 2024 (January-
March 2024) and new talent recruited to revitalise and
contribute new ideas in driving innovation. As part of
the restructuring exercise, changes were made to our
trade marketing, sales and development, and KSA
sales leadership team. This included the recruitment
of additional sales leaders to manage our expanded
business in Egypt and North Africa. The second prong was implementing the first stage
of a new customer relationship management system -
NeoCRM (Customer Resource Management System)
- to replace our old CRM-IVY system. This new system
provides greater flexibility with better customisation
features with the completion of implementation slated by
Q2 FY 2025.
