document_id: MDA_5202_MSM_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 87, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
During the initial phase of MCO, most of
the domestic customers suspended their operations whilst
During the
initial
phase
of MCO, most
of the
domestic
customers
suspended
their operations whilst the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been improving since Q3 2020
based onthe positive operational earnings ofthe Group since July 2020. “
“
2020 Market Overview
Global and local markets were hit by an unprecedented
impact from COVID-19 in 2020 that continues to reverberate
into 2021. This has changed the landscape of business and
challenged many industries, some of which, such as travel
and hospitality, are recording immense setbacks following
the travel bans and other virus containment measures
imposed by the Government. the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been
improving since Q3 2020 based on the positive operational
earnings of the Group since July 2020. The weak sales volume in Domestic segment has been
supplemented by an increased Export segment sales volume.
[MDA_P007]
Despite
the pandemic, NY11 prices in 2020 has been generally favourable
for the Group, trending between USD11.00 – 15.00 cents/lb. The stable prices were a result of high production in Brazil1
which balanced out the shortage caused by Thailand’s extreme
drought. MSM managed to close the year at an average price
of USD12.70 cents/lb against the market average of USD12.89
cents/lb. In 2021, global sugar trade flow is projected to be in deficit of
0.5 million tonnes with a more bullish price outlook ranging from
USD14.00 – 19.00 cents/lb2 as the dry-weather in Thailand is
expected to prolong to 2022, reducing the sugar supply in the
region and the world by about 7 million tonnes and shifting the
supply risk to Brazil as the single largest raw sugar exporter for
2021. The increase in crude oil prices will also have an impact on
Brazilian sugar production as millers will be motivated to produce
more ethanol instead of sugar from the sugarcane crop. We also
expect to see similar ethanol related influence similar to Brazil for
Indian producers. 1. High raw sugar production in Brazil
due to low ethanol price, weak real
and good sugarcane crop
2.
[MDA_P009]
Contributed over
RM120,000
worth of sugar products in basic
food products care packages
Staying Resilient
There
are
still
identified
challenges
towards
MSM’s
performance outlook due to the Group’s large refining
capacity. MSM has to enhance its domestic market
position and expand its export market footprint whilst faced
with high production cost, borrowing commitments and
volatility of external market factors. Having analysed the
Group’s competitive position, Management has identified
opportunities for the Group and formed the basis of the
strategies for the next three years. The aim is to ensure MSM’s
financial performance keeps on improving and sustainable.
Based on a strategic analysis, as well as review of current
risks and opportunities, Management has set out seven
key strategic initiatives (KSIs) under MSM’s BP21 that shall
uphold the four key strategic thrusts of Operational
Improvement, Product and Market Penetration, New Growth
Area and Financial Capability Building.
[MDA_P011]
More on Risks & Opportunities and BP21 can be found on
pages 30 and 31 respectively. Focus on Sustainability
MSM’s focus on sustainable growth continues to be
trained on ensuring good governance practices, enabling
a fair and safe workplace, taking care of our employees,
maintaining energy and water savings, managing waste
and
emissions
and
contributing
to
the
community. In 2020, we strove to increase engagement opportunities
with our employees and the community in nurturing resilience
within a challenging pandemic period. More investments
towards digitalisation were also initiated towards meeting
new norms for business continuity. Employee Engagement
Due
to
COVID-19,
the
Group’s
scheduled
people
engagement activities could not be carried out as
planned. Instead, MSM focused on digital communication
channels and activated a people outreach channel to
strengthen employee-management synergy and harmony. Open channels of communication were established to
enable sharing of constructive values and information
during a period of uncertainty.
[MDA_P013]
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REVIEW
Digital Engagement
To help curb the COVID-19 impact and catalyse our
digitalisation
journey,
in
MSM
adopted
digital
engagement in our work practices by increasing online
and teleconference meetings to avoid frequent interstate
and inter-district travel. Previously, MSM frequently travel
to operation sites and for other business meetings by
flight. In relations to the digital adaptation in our business
approach, we managed to reduce our carbon footprint
by 86% for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions related to air
travel. Outlook
The year 2021 began as an outright challenging year amidst
the third wave of COVID-19 infections in Malaysia with the
government imposing a fresh Movement Conditional Order
(MCO) that caused further declines in market demand
coupled with increased challenges for the SME industries. Having expanded our refining capacity with MSM Johor on
stream, an immediate priority moving forward is to ensure
the maximisation of Group capacity that is well supported
by the growth in the core business units namely Domestic
(Wholesale and Industry) and Export (refined sugar and
value added products).
