document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2020
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": false, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
•
 Liquid Caramel, Caramel Colour
•
 Vinegar
•
 Glucose Syrup, High Maltose Syrup
•
Soya Protein Sauce (“HVP”)
•
 Hydrolysed Vegetable Protein (“HVP”) Powder
•
 Maltodextrin
The Group serves businesses of all sizes across a broad
spectrum of industries and sectors. Our versatile range of
ingredients have different functional properties and unique
characteristics that can be tailored to customer needs. All
ingredients are Halal and Kosher certified. The Group offers diverse range of packaging options to
accommodate customer needs. There are various package
sizes ranging from bulk road tanker to small packing such
as jerrycan and carton box. Customised packaging can be
arranged to accommodate customer requirements.
[MDA_P002]
OUR ACCREDITATION & RECOGNITION
FSSC 22000 Certification by Intertek Certification International
Sdn Bhd
HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
HALAL Certification by Islamic Development Department of Malaysia
(“JAKIM”)
KOSHER Certification by Orthodox Union
Rgn : 402283
ABOUT US
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A”) is an investment
holding company which was listed since 2002 and
transferred to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in
2008. Its wholly owned subsidiary San Soon Seng
Food Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”) is one of the
leading food and beverage ingredient manufacturing
company, started as a caramel producer in 1977 and
expanded its product portfolio that have made strong
footprints in many parts of the world. 3A and SSSFI
(“the Group”) remained focused in its core strength
of manufacturing food and beverage ingredients. The Group ﬁrmly believes in producing products of
the highest quality and has successfully expanded
beyond Asian horizons and making its mark in the
international market. ABOUT US
LEADERSHIP
SUSTAINABILITY
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
[MDA_P003]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
investments on production facilities to
improve capacity and efficiency. These
business plans were carried out after
the Group had carefully conducted
comprehensive evaluation and planning
involving suitable marketing strategies
for our products and also investment
decisions. FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group recorded slightly better
revenue of RM436.16 million in FY2020
as compared to RM436.06 million in
FY2019. Meanwhile, profit before tax
and profit after tax were slightly better at
RM40.7 million and RM30.1 million
respectively in FY2020 as compared
with RM40.2 million and RM29.4 million
respectively in FY2019. Albeit the uncertain economic conditions,
the Group recorded better financial
performance that was attributed to
relatively stable raw materials costs and
effective products sales mix in FY2020. From the positive results of our marketing
efforts, export revenue of the Group in
FY2020 continued to grow to 48% of our
total revenue as compared with 39% in
FY2019.
[MDA_P004]
Revenue by Geographical Locations for
FY2020
Other Foreign
Countries
Singapore
Malaysia
39%
9%
52%
During the FY2020, the Group registered
impairment losses on trade receivables
amounting to RM0.57 million but the
Group successfully made recoveries of
RM0.29 million from impairment losses
during the year. The Group continued with its carefully
crafted business strategies to research
and develop good quality products in
order to meet as well as exceed the
expectations of our valued customers. Besides, the Group also continued with
initiatives to achieve improved operational
efficiency in our manufacturing plants
from upgrading and modernization plans
which were carried out in FY2020. These
long-term plans are also meant to enable
us to reduce reliance on foreign labor and
to improve our manufacturing facilities in
order to be more efficient to produce
more as well as achieve cost savings. THE YEAR 2020
During the year 2020, the COVID-19
pandemic had brought dramatic changes
to the lives of the people and businesses
all over the world. With the introduction
of the Movement Control Order (“MCO”)
to fight the pandemic, local consumers
were cautious in spending during the
year.
[MDA_P005]
Although the Group was allowed
to operate during the MCO period, we
were also impacted as we witnessed
lower revenue from local customers
in the country. However, our export
revenue to overseas markets were able
to offset such weaknesses through our
mix of marketing strategies and agility in
meeting new buying trends. The Group stays true to our strong
business philosophy of producing
products of exceptional quality at
competitive prices and also continuous
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
[MDA_P007]
Moreover, the Group expects the utilisation
to continue to increase in 2021 with
encouraging interests from a few major
customers. Maltodextrin plant no. 3 was
designed to produce certain grades
of maltodextrin, thereby the intention
is to capture customers with specific
applications. The upgrading of Maltodextrin plant
2 to increase its plant efficiency is still
on-going. In view of increasing demand
for maltodextrin products, the Group had
deferred earlier plans to convert our first-
generation maltodextrin plant 1 to produce
caramel powder products and other
powder products to a later stage. In addition, the expansion and upgrading
of the latest glucose production plant
was completed in year 2019 and has yet
to achieve optimum utilisation as at the
end of year 2020. In view thereof, the
Group decided to defer initial plans for
construction of another glucose production
plant to a later stage. Moreover, the
production plant capacity expansion plans
for HVP and Caramel products together
with the relocation of Vinegar production
plant that were launched in 2019 had been
delayed in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
