document_id: MDA_5187_HBGLOB_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 11, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
Recognizing that customer
preferences evolve, we continuously strive to monitor
and refine our offerings to meet their changing needs. By prioritizing quality, the Group aims to fortify its
market position and cultivate enduring relationships
with its customers. Operation Overview
HBGL Group’s revenue had increased by RMB3.9
million or approximately 4.9% from RMB76.1 million in
financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FYE2022”) to
RMB80.0 million in financial year ended 31 December
2023 (“FYE2023”). The increase was mainly due to
increase in sales of China subsidiary as during FYE2023,
there was recovery from disruption in the production
and supply chain due to lockdown in certain areas of
China which have been affected with rising Covid 19
cases. The Group had a decrease in net loss before
taxation to RMB47.9 million in FYE2023 as compared to
RMB171.0 million in FYE2022. Dear Valued Shareholders,
The following MD&A of the operating
performance and financial condition
of the Group for the twelve (12) months
ended 31 December 2023 should be
read in conjunction with the Audited
Financial Statement for the year ended
31 December 2023 and related notes
thereto.
[MDA_P007]
The
decrease was mainly due to total comprehensive
loss incurred amounted to RMB47.9 million in FYE 2023. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
decreased by about RMB25.5 million and RMB7.7
million mainly due to impairment loss provided,
depreciation and amortization in FYE 2023. Decrease
in trade and other receivables from RMB22.3 million
to RMB13.4 million was mainly due to better average
collection period from trade receivables. To preserve its financial stability and enhance
competitiveness,
the
Group
is
committed
to
implementing robust cash flow management and
improving revenue generation strategies to ensure a
positive cash balance. Additionally, a key focus will
be placed on reducing costs through several strategic
initiatives. These
include
optimizing
operational
efficiency, increasing production capacity, and
streamlining supply chain management processes. By adopting these measures, the Group will be able
to allocate resources more effectively, thereby
maintaining financial health amidst the challenging
market conditions. These strategies are critical to our
ongoing efforts to ensure sustainable growth and
continued success in the industry.
[MDA_P008]
Business Strategics and Risk Factors
The Research and Development division of our
company is dedicated to enhancing product quality
to meet growing consumer demands and maintain
market competitiveness. Our focus centers on
innovation and creativity to develop healthier options
that resonate with consumer preferences, all while
upholding the highest standards of quality. In addition to these efforts, we are actively expanding
our customer base through exploring new domestic
and international markets, launching innovative
products, and continuously improving product quality
and variety. To align with shifts in the retail landscape,
significant investments have been made in online
shopping initiatives to bolster sales. Further strategic investments have been directed
towards upgrading our factories and acquiring
advanced machinery to boost production efficiency,
reduce operational costs, and enhance profitability. These investments ensure our adherence to the latest
technological advancements in the industry, helping
us maintain a competitive edge.
[MDA_P009]
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Given our role in the food industry, we are acutely
aware of the risks associated with product quality and
safety. To mitigate these risks, we have implemented
rigorous policies and procedures for processing, plant
and machinery sanitation, and employee hygiene. Our strict adherence to quality systems and product
traceability protocols underscores our commitment
to preventing contamination and ensuring product
safety. Acknowledging various business risks such as labour
shortages, fluctuations in raw material prices, logistics
costs, and national policies, our management team
has taken comprehensive measures to mitigate
these issues. These include forming partnerships with
multiple suppliers, investing in advanced machinery
and
automation,
and
optimizing
our
logistics
operations through technology solutions and strategic
negotiations. To address the risk of changing national policies, we
actively engage with government officials, expand
operations internationally, and ensure compliance
with all regulations.
[MDA_P010]
These proactive steps help us
minimize exposure to policy shifts, maintaining our
compliance and adapting to changes effectively. In conclusion, by actively managing these risks and
continually investing in both product and operational
advancements, our company strives to sustain its
position as a reliable and responsible manufacturer in
the food industry, ensuring long-term profitability and
success. Declaration of Dividends
With the current financial position and further unknown
challenges ahead, in view of financial prudence, no
dividend is to be declared. Business Prospect
The Group acknowledges that 2024 will be marked by
persistent challenges and uncertainties, notably the
ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, rising energy costs,
supply chain disruptions, and the effects of climate
change. Among these issues, the priority will be to
effectively manage escalating materials costs in the
long term. Despite these obstacles, there is optimism regarding
the potential of the food industry. As global trade
and economic conditions show signs of recovery,
and restrictions ease, we have observed an increase
in consumption.
