document_id: MDA_7237_PWROOT_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 18, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
meet their demand for high quality beverages. We also
know that it is crucial for us to be agile and to adapt
in a competitive beverage market with unpredictable
consumer behaviour. Constant change is required, be it
in ways we engage customers, target consumers, create
marketing interest, or provide increased product choices. The Group’s strategies will continue to evolve as we seek
continued business growth. THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Economic uncertainty, exacerbated by a weak Ringgit,
global conflicts and moderate domestic demand in
household spending, contributed to slower growth this
financial year. Consumers in Malaysia are struggling
with increasing costs of living, particularly in urban
areas. Such uneasiness was reflected by weak
consumer sentiments as the public tightened their
spending in response to near-term concerns, as well
as in anticipation of on-going government economic
restructuring aimed at long-term growth.
[MDA_P008]
Power Root believes that we have found a dependable
partner in Abbar & Sons with similar goals to us which will
play a crucial role in our recovery and growth in MENA. With their distribution network and support, the Group is
working to increase our volume of sales in the near future.
[MDA_P011]
POWER ROOT BERHAD 200601013517 (733268-U)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
were delivered at staggered dates, thus reducing our
need to hold large stocks of raw materials for long
periods. With these modifications, we reduced our
storage and handling costs notably. Warehouse capacity optimisation
In terms of capacity, we have made significant
advancements in optimising the use of our storage
space. Previously, we had to store almost 5,000 pallets
at third party warehouses; we have reduced the number
down to 1,500 pallets at most. This has been achieved
with the change in racking systems which has freed up
space capacity, as well as improved internal storage
arrangements in Plant 1 located at No.1 Jalan Sri
Plentong, Taman Perindustrian Sri Plentong, Masai,
Johor Bahru, and Plant 3 located at No. 1 Jalan Sri
Plentong 5, Taman Perindustrian Sri Plentong, Masai,
Johor Bahru. As a result of these changes, we have increased storage
capacity, improved efficiencies, as well as reduced
storage, transportation and warehousing costs.
[MDA_P012]
OPERATIONAL ASPECTS
During Q2 FY 2024, the Group commenced the use of
a Pada Makine machine which enabled us to produce
square format sachet products that improves capacity
while providing the ﬂexibility for adjustments to meet
our product needs. In addition, we continue to make
progress in the roasting and grinding of coffee beans
into micro ground coffee at our newly-commissioned
coffee bean roasting plant. This upstream process allows
us better cost control as we use the internally produced
micro ground coffee as raw material for our products. The Group is reaping the benefits of the Solar
Photovoltaic Panels which generate electricity of up
to 574kWp; this was installed in FY 2023 as part of our
sustainability plan. The electricity harvested from the
existing solar panels has resulted in savings of 15% of
our electricity bill. This successful energy saving initiative
has encouraged us to embark on the second phase of
our solar panel installation to harvest electricity from the
sun which is expected to generate an additional 500kWp. On the human resource management front, we fully
exhausted the last batch of our foreign worker levy of 104
workers under contract.
[MDA_P013]
We have also converted all sub-
contracted labour to be directly under the Group which
will stabilise our work force and be more cost-efﬁcient. FINANCIAL REVIEW
REVENUE
LOCAL
(RM’million)
EXPORT
(RM’million)
FY 2024
243.6
175.7
FY 2023
262.7
193.1
For the FY 2024, the Group recorded revenue of
RM419.3 million, a decrease of approximately 8.0% from
the revenue of RM455.8 million recorded in FY 2023. The decline in local market revenue can be attributed to
weak consumer sentiment due to high inﬂation and slow
economic growth while the decrease in export revenue
was due to the restructuring of sales and distribution in
our operations within MENA. PROFIT AFTER TAX (“PAT”)
For the FY 2024, the Group recorded a PAT of RM42.3
million, a decrease of 28.9% from the PAT of RM59.5
million in FY 2023. The decrease in PAT was attributed to lower revenue
recorded for the year, higher raw material costs and
higher absorption costs due to lower production output.
[MDA_P016]
Since our listing on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in 2007, the Group has paid
out a total of RM469.8 million in dividends, representing
a dividend pay-out ratio of approximately 85.8%. It is our
intention to continue to reward our shareholders for their
loyalty and participation in our growth. BUSINESS OUTLOOK
In the upcoming ﬁnancial year, the Group intends to
improve on our product offerings to provide for better
consumer satisfaction and choices. After making
signiﬁcant investments in building our brands in FY 2024,
we plan to build on this by refocusing on improving
margins on our proﬁtable brands in FY 2025. We will continue to pursue efﬁciencies in our distribution
channels while reducing wastage across all areas of
the business for both cost-efﬁciency and sustainability
objectives. Power Root also intends to explore upstream
business opportunities as we seek solutions to rein in
costs and improve management over our supply chain. AREAS OF RISK
