document_id: MDA_3662_MFLOUR_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 12, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
MFM saw a confluence of factors affecting our FGT business, namely the geopolitical conflict in Europe, the
economic impact from inflationary pressure which ultimately drove up commodity prices along with interest
rates, as well as the indirect effect on currency volatility, amidst the recovering consumer sentiments in post-
COVID era. FGT’s revenue growth during FY2022 was due more to the increase in selling prices of our flour products, in
line with the higher costs of our raw materials of wheat and grain, rather than the increase in sales volume for
our operations in Malaysia and Vietnam resulting in the FGT segment’s posting lower earnings before interest
and taxation (“EBIT”) of RM127.7 million, a 31.7% decline compared to the previous year of RM187.0 million. On the contrary, the Group’s PI segment performed remarkably well in 2022, turning around with a profit after
tax of RM151.0 million, versus a net loss of RM57.3 million in the previous year on the back of a 29.0% jump
in revenue to RM1.11 billion.
[MDA_P005]
On basis of EBITDA at group level, the continuing operations after accounting for fair value gain arising
from remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM8.8 million, effectively doubled to RM246.6
million during the financial year under review, compared to RM123.2 million previously. Correspondingly,
the Group recorded a profit after tax and minority interest (“PATMI”) from continuing operations of RM145.0
million or basic earnings per share (“EPS”) of 14.22 sen, compared to RM36.4 million or basic EPS of 3.57
sen previously. On net-of-cash basis, the Group’s gearing increased to 0.60x, versus 0.51x previously. The increased net
gearing was largely attributable to the higher working capital needs to finance the increase in raw materials
costs which saw inventories increased from RM494.0 million to RM627.8 million.
[MDA_P006]
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Operations Highlights
Flour and Grain Trading Segment
In spite of rising raw material prices, strengthening of USD against regional currencies, rising interest rates and
geopolitical conflict in Europe in 2022, our Group’s revenue grew by 20.1% to RM2.92 billion driven mainly
by increase in selling prices albeit a decline in sales volume. The grain trading business experienced at 7%
reduction in sales volume as compared to the previous year due to lower demand of feeds. Despite this, the
FGT business continues to remain profitable, recording an operating profit of RM127.7 million, representing a
31.7% reduction from the previous year. Similarly, BFMI suffered losses in 2022 as compared to 2021 due to lower sales volume, higher raw material
cost, higher financing cost and the strengthening of USD against Rupiah. Amidst the challenging environment for our FGT business, we will remain focused on ensuring cost efficiency
in our flour milling operations through better flour extraction and blending processes.
[MDA_P007]
At the same time, we
will ensure uninterrupted supply of our raw materials, as well as pricing our end products to meet the markets’
needs. Poultry Integration Segment
Our PI business improved in FY2022 at all levels, from upstream operations and primary processing plant in
Sitiawan Perak, to the sales channels for our poultry products. Broiler production for own farms, contract farms and open-market-buy-back farms increased as a result of our
progressive efforts put in place over the years such as improving feed quality and farmhouse hygiene as well
as ensuring higher bio-security controls to mitigate future disease outbreaks. These progressive efforts have
also improved the quality of our broilers, and reduced production costs through optimum feed conversion
ratio and lower mortality rate. The increased broiler supply from the farmhouses during the year had allowed our primary processing plant
to increase our utilisation rate. This had a positive impact on the segment’s profitability and margins, arising
from greater economies of scale and increase in sales of more value-added products.
[MDA_P008]
Today, we are selling
more value-added products than before, and our exposure to the volatile prices in live bird trading market has
been markedly reduced, hence providing better profitability, as we continue to be one of the leading suppliers
of processed poultry products in the country. Aqua Feeds Segment
The aqua feeds business continues to record growth in sales volumes resulting in a lower operating loss of
RM2.5 million in 2022 as compared to RM3.7 million in 2021. Anticipated or Known Risks
Food safety and compliance to standards are top priorities for us as a food manufacturer, since usage of flour
and poultry is very wide and diverse, cutting across different cultural background, race and religion. To ensure our customers and consumers are able to consume products produced without any worry or
doubt, we have implemented Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) in all our manufacturing
facilities. At the same time, all our products are halal certified by Department of Islamic Development Malaysia
(“JAKIM”) and are subject to annual compliance audit.
