document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2022
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 32, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
Managing director’s
review
Dear Shareholders,
In 2022, Malaysia’s economy strengthened with the
reopening of international borders and the transition
to the endemic phase of COVID-19. This had positively
impacted various industries, trade and investment-
related services. However, world economic activities
were adversely affected by monetary policy tightening,
surging inflation, fiscal restraints, and the continuing
Russian-Ukraine war. Despite the global and domestic economic challenges, the PPB Group had achieved
a commendable performance in 2022. All key segments contributed positively to the
increase in revenue and profitability of the Group, coupled with a higher contribution
from Wilmar International Limited. Economic
and
Operating
Environment in 2022
Overall,
the
Malaysian
economy
expanded by 8.7% in 2022. Private
sector
activity
remained
the
key
driver of growth, supported by private
consumption, investments and improving
labour market conditions.
[MDA_P003]
FFM owns and operates five feed mills
across Malaysia, with a total milling
capacity amounting to 66,000 mt/ month. The
livestock
farming
operations
comprise a layer farm in Trong, Perak
and two breeder farms in Sua Betong,
Negeri Sembilan and Gurun, Kedah. The
production capacity of the Trong layer
farm is estimated at 20.5 million eggs
per month, while the breeder farms have
a combined production capacity of about
3.05 million chicks per month. Flour Milling
FFM Group’s revenue growth in 2022
was mainly driven by improved selling
prices for flour and by-products from
all flour mills. However, the quantum of
increase was insufficient to offset the
impact of the unprecedented high wheat
costs, hedging losses in an extremely
volatile commodity market and supply
disruption caused by the Russia-Ukraine
war. As a result, producers were seeking
alternative sources of wheat to mitigate
rising production costs. Moving forward,
we foresee growth in the domestic
market going into 2023 as manufacturers
increase production to cater to a
higher demand. We plan to expand
our market share by focusing on sales
growth to institutional clients without
compromising on product quality.
[MDA_P004]
This
will be our core pillar of growth for 2023. Animal Feed Milling
The Animal Feed Milling business
environment remains challenging due
to market segment contraction as many
major customers switched to home
mixing or toll milling to cut costs. This
has compounded the already difficult
situation when independent farmers
had adopted integrated farming to
stay relevant and competitive which
impacted the businesses of independent
feed millers. The consolidation of the poultry farming
industry led to intense and increasing
market competition in the feed milling
industry. The
division
has
taken
steps to mitigate these challenges by
improving procurement efficiency for
greater effectiveness whilst focused
on
delivering
better
high-quality
feed at competitive prices and value. Concentrated efforts will be made to
widen our customer base to avoid
dependence on a few key customers
and expand our reach in the market. We will continue to explore other means
to mitigate pressures from the poultry
farming sector by diversifying the feed
products to other segments such as
ruminant feed, and to seek opportunities
for growth in downstream and through
product diversification.
[MDA_P009]
The bread market during the year
remained stable. However, the market is expected to face
increased competition in 2023, with
more participants including expansion
of artisan bakeries. TIB plans to meet
this challenge by further increasing
efficiency, controlling costs, introducing
more unique products, and expanding
distribution channels. Food Processing
The Food Processing division faced
similar challenges as the Consumer
Products Distribution division namely,
labour shortage, inflation, higher interest
rates and supply instability. Going into 2023, FFP will continue to
innovate and add new products to its
portfolio in meeting food service, and
retail demand. We expect a challenging
year in 2023, marked by cost pressures
and
tight
operational
margins
but
with prudent cost management and
production optimisation, we can stay
efficient and competitive. Transition to COVID-19 Endemicity
The
Consumer
Products
segment
continued to face higher operational
costs
as
we
maintained
stringent
health and safety measures such as
sanitisation, medical screenings and
equipping the workplace with adequate
hygiene facilities.
[MDA_P011]
It achieved a gross box office
collection of RM89 million equivalent
to 12% of Malaysia’s net box office. Other locally-produced movies also
contributed significantly to the recovery,
and this gives GSC greater confidence to
invest further in local productions. Looking Ahead
Going forward into 2023, GSC is on track
to carry out major refurbishments at some
of its cinemas in Malaysia which includes
additional hall types and upgrading of
halls. These enhancements will refresh
and improve the quality of cinematic
offerings for a better competitive edge. With a strong movie line-up and opening
of new cinemas, we anticipate a
continued positive trend in the industry. The growth of this segment is expected
Managing director’s review
Managing director’s review
 FFM Farms’ layer farm in Trong, Perak
 Chicken nuggets production at FFM Further Processing’s factory in Pulau Indah, Selangor
 Golden Screen Cinemas, Tropicana Gardens Mall, Petaling Jaya
