document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2024
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 21, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“Through the significant external challenges confronted in 2024, Nestlé Malaysia remained focused on consistently delivering on
our mission to provide high-quality nutrition, foods and beverages through our vast range of products, all Halal-certified, sold under
trusted brands, and proudly made in Malaysia, by Malaysians. As we have done throughout our 112 years in Malaysia, we continued
to adapt, innovate and, above all, stay true to our purpose of being a positive force in the life of the nation, creating shared value for all
our stakeholders and leading industry action towards building a more sustainable future.“
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
Business, Financial & Operational Review
The defining element of the operating environment in 2024 was the unfavourable
sentiment and hesitancy towards international brands triggered by global
events. This was compounded by constrained consumer purchasing power and
persistent volatility in food-related commodity costs, impacting the cost of living
for many Malaysian families.
[MDA_P002]
Within this landscape, the Group’s turnover was
impacted by a 12% reduction in sales driven by the domestic market, while the
export business continued to grow. In spite of the challenges, our leading position in the FMCG market in Malaysia
remained undisputed, and we continue to command strong leadership across
most of the segments in which we operate. Indeed, with a penetration of 96%
of Malaysian households, nearly 200 Nestlé products are consumed every
second, with our distribution and sales capabilities ensuring the widest possible
territorial and channel coverage. These foundational aspects, in combination
with strong plans for demand generation, give us full confidence in recovering
healthy growth levels in 2025. In a year with growth headwinds, our disciplined cost management and
continuous search for operational efficiency improvements were critical to
partially mitigate margin pressures. These efforts will also be beneficial to
our competitiveness in the marketplace, further strengthening our ability to
win.
[MDA_P003]
In this context, a number of projects and initiatives were implemented to
drive efficiency in industrial and logistics operations as well as administrative
activities, with digitalisation (including gradual adoption of AI solutions) as a
key enabler. Our capital expenditure in 2024 was also optimised, while ensuring all-important
projects supporting business continuity, capacity and efficiency upgrades, as
well as new product launches were fully implemented on time and on budget. In fact, by the end of 2024, we had completed the RM1 billion investment cycle
to be delivered over the last triennium, as announced in 2021. [Third from left, onwards] YBhg Ts. Dr. Nagulendran Kangayatkarasu, Secretary-General, Ministry of Youth and Sports; Juan
Aranols, YB Puan Hannah Yeoh, Minister of Youth and Sports; Ng Su Yen and the MILO team at the Handover Ceremony
celebrating our 56 Olympians and Paralympians who proudly represented Malaysia in Paris. Their journey from school sports to
global stage showcases the power of perseverance and dedication, embodying the values MILO has championed for over 70 years.
[MDA_P004]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Overall, while the decline in revenue had an unfavourable impact on short-
term bottom-line results, the Company’s financial position has remained
strong, allowing us to deliver another year of solid dividends of RM1.79
per share. As mentioned earlier, 2024 was a year focused on building operational
resilience, alongside sharpening our competitive edge in an evolving
market landscape while ensuring that the key fundamental elements in the
narrative of our brands and Nestlé as a whole were well explained and
understood by all Malaysians. We implemented comprehensive measures
to address and respond to shifting consumer sentiments while enhancing
our value propositions across different market segments, in order for our
products to remain highly accessible to Malaysian consumers. Through
every endeavour, we consistently upheld our commitment to quality,
nutrition and Halal certification, while continuing to protect the consumer
taste preferences intrinsically associated with our core brands.
[MDA_P006]
This HCL certification currently encompasses,
among others, 100% of our MILO powder and mixes range, where we have
been able to significantly reduce the sugar content while still providing all
the nutrition and taste that only MILO can deliver. This includes the MILO
Intense Dark Chocolate launched in 2024, offering an equally nutritious
option with a richer and more indulgent taste. Local origins were another area of focus with the addition of KIT KAT Dark Borneo, the first product from our Nestlé
Borneo Cocoa Initiative, in partnership with the Malaysian Cocoa Board, that aims to accelerate the development of
sustainable cocoa farming in Sabah and Sarawak. This secures a localised supply chain of responsibly-produced raw
ingredients, while we elevate the living conditions of the rural communities involved. Many other meaningful portfolio additions occurred in 2024. The KIT KAT Chocolate Drink made its debut as a first-
of-its-kind product created and produced in Malaysia, 100% Halal-certified and made with sustainably sourced cocoa.
