document_id: MDA_5202_MSM_2020
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 87, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
REVIEW
Generally, the business community in Malaysia is experiencing
tighter cash flow due to enforced business closures as part
of the government’s movement control order (MCO) from
March to May 2020. For the food and beverage sector,
manufacturers started regulating productions which directly
affects the consumption of sugar. Domestic economic
recovery has also been further hampered with the
Conditional Movement Control Order (CMCO) announced in
quarter 4 (Q4) of 2020 due to the third wave of COVID-19. This has caused a drop in domestic sugar consumption for
the wholesale and industry segment for 2020. The sharp slowdown in economic activities is expected to
contract Malaysia’s GDP by at least 3.1% in 2020 according to
World Bank projections. 2020 Performance Review
Overall, MSM’s financial performance was mainly affected
by lower sugar consumption in the domestic wholesale
and industry segment due to MCO since late March 2020. During the year under review, the Group’s domestic sales
volume dropped by 110,000 tonnes or 13% lower compared
to the prior year and revenue loss was approximately
RM118 million.
[MDA_P002]
During the initial phase of MCO, most of
the domestic customers suspended their operations whilst
During the
initial
phase
of MCO, most
of the
domestic
customers
suspended
their operations whilst the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been improving since Q3 2020
based onthe positive operational earnings ofthe Group since July 2020. “
“
2020 Market Overview
Global and local markets were hit by an unprecedented
impact from COVID-19 in 2020 that continues to reverberate
into 2021. This has changed the landscape of business and
challenged many industries, some of which, such as travel
and hospitality, are recording immense setbacks following
the travel bans and other virus containment measures
imposed by the Government. the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been
improving since Q3 2020 based on the positive operational
earnings of the Group since July 2020. The weak sales volume in Domestic segment has been
supplemented by an increased Export segment sales volume.
[MDA_P007]
Despite
the pandemic, NY11 prices in 2020 has been generally favourable
for the Group, trending between USD11.00 – 15.00 cents/lb. The stable prices were a result of high production in Brazil1
which balanced out the shortage caused by Thailand’s extreme
drought. MSM managed to close the year at an average price
of USD12.70 cents/lb against the market average of USD12.89
cents/lb. In 2021, global sugar trade flow is projected to be in deficit of
0.5 million tonnes with a more bullish price outlook ranging from
USD14.00 – 19.00 cents/lb2 as the dry-weather in Thailand is
expected to prolong to 2022, reducing the sugar supply in the
region and the world by about 7 million tonnes and shifting the
supply risk to Brazil as the single largest raw sugar exporter for
2021. The increase in crude oil prices will also have an impact on
Brazilian sugar production as millers will be motivated to produce
more ethanol instead of sugar from the sugarcane crop. We also
expect to see similar ethanol related influence similar to Brazil for
Indian producers. 1. High raw sugar production in Brazil
due to low ethanol price, weak real
and good sugarcane crop
2.
[MDA_P015]
More on Business units’ performance and plans moving
forward are captured in the Business Review on page 36. Another immediate concern is to ensure our employees’
welfare as a healthy and able workforce is vital to continue
business and refinery operations. We began the year with
further enforcement of a robust and strong adherence
to
standard
operating
procedures
(SOPs)
coupled
with a continuous education programme and stringent
enforcement to ensure a healthy and capable workforce. Moving forward into the future, the Group is embarking on
an aggressive growth in business units. Towards this end,
strengthening human resources and digitalisation are our
priorities in providing adequate resources and support that
commensurate with the expansion of the business units. Enhancing Human Resources
Recognising human capital as our most important asset
in
achieving
organisational
success,
MSM’s
Human
Capital/People Partner Division has laid out five strategic
priorities for the next few years.
[MDA_P036]
Other strategies towards maximising profitability for the year include the
discontinuation of non-strategic operations, optimisation of the utilisation
factor between our refineries, focus on growth in export sales, expansion into
new value-added products, and the successful continuation of our raw sugar
procurement agreement with a reputable sugar trader through the Just-In-Time
method. As a result, year-on-year loss after tax (LAT) narrowed by 76% from a LAT
of RM299.78 million in 2019 to a smaller LAT of RM71.23 million in 2020. The losses, however, were mainly due to one-off impairment of the bearer
plant on plantation land in Chuping, Perlis. Excluding discontinuing operations,
MSM registered a profit before tax (PBT) of RM35.85 million, a 112% improvement
from 2019. The improvements were mainly contributed from our key strategic
initiative to streamline our operations by ceasing the sugar refinery operations
in MSM Perlis and consolidating production volume between MSM Prai and
MSM Johor to optimise overall refining costs.
[MDA_P044]
The Group is looking into strategic capital management
and fund-raising programmes to improve liquidity and
to meet strategic investment requirements.
e)
Monetise non-core assets
