document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 98, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
15 April 2021)
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Hia Cheng
Chairman, Executive Director
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Ang Nyee Nyee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Ang Nyee Nyee
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Chairman on 15 April 2021)
Tan Ah Lai
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Nurulhuda Binti Abd Kadir
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed as Committee Member on 15 April 2021)
YBhg Datuk Tay Puay Chuan
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Chairman w.e.f. 15 April 2021)
YBhg Dato Dr. Mohamad Musa bin Md Jamil
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased as Committee Member w.e.f.
[MDA_P010]
Sustainability report
Corporate Governance
& Compliance
Financial STATEMENTS
Others
Integrated ANNUAL REPORT 2021 | 11
Corporate Principal Activities, Market Environment,
Competitive Landscape and Market Positioning
Corporate Principal Activities
Our business is principally involved in the manufacturing
of cocoa-derived food ingredients including cocoa mass,
cocoa butter, cocoa powder and cocoa cake, in addition
to a full range of chocolates and couvertures that come in
dark, milk and white varieties, and in solid or liquid form. Market Environment
FY2021 presented a challenging year for the Group,
as disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and
geopolitical tensions have led to uncertainty, global
inflation and supply chain disruptions. Even so, market demand during FY2021 was better than
FY2020 as economies gradually recovered from the impact
of COVID-19. Alongside the rapid rollout of COVID-19
vaccines in most countries and travel restrictions that are
gradually being lifted, there has been a surge in demand
for chocolate in the market in the United States1, and the
industry is adopting a cautiously optimistic outlook over
the medium-to-long-term.
[MDA_P011]
Nevertheless, our expansion plans represent both a risk and
an opportunity. While we stand to benefit from reduced
supply chain risks, differences in market conditions, social
and cultural practices, and business processes will pose
challenges that will require coordinated and collective
effort to overcome. Competitive Landscape
Even with the recent expansion activities, as the world’s
fourth largest cocoa grinding company, we continue to
face stiff competition from major international companies
that boast wider market reach, stronger influence
and greater financial resources. Furthermore, these
international companies usually operate end-to-end,
vertically integrated supply chains, thereby reducing their
exposure to risks derived from logistical challenges and
weakened market demand. In addressing this issue, our new cocoa processing facility in
Ivory Coast, expected to commence production activities
in mid-2022, will have a transformative effect.
[MDA_P012]
It will enable
us to source cocoa beans directly from origin, which will
not only provide us a shorter bean-to-ingredients cycle
compared to our other facilities, but also give us better
control over the scheduling and supply reliability of quality
beans. This will mitigate supply chain risks and empower
greater control over the scheduling of our production and
shipping activities. Ultimately, by enabling the direct supply of cocoa
ingredients to our operations in Germany and the United
Kingdom, our facility in Ivory Coast will drive increased cost
efficiencies, giving us increased leeway to capture market
share and achieve long-term growth in these important
markets and beyond. Market Positioning
We are optimistic that the acquisitions and expansion we
have made in the past few years stand us in good stead to
strengthen our presence as a key multinational player in
the global chocolate supply chain. Firstly, through our new cocoa processing facility in Ivory
Coast, we will benefit from direct access to raw materials in
the world’s largest cocoa bean producing country.
[MDA_P013]
This will
unlock operational and cost efficiencies across the Group,
enhancing our market position and competitiveness in the
global cocoa market. Secondly, our acquisition of SCHOKINAG in Germany
has improved our production capabilities and widened
our product portfolio, enabling us to compete strongly in
the German and broader European consumer chocolate
markets. To capitalise on growth opportunities in this
region of the world, we plan to allocate RM50 million in
2022 towards upgrading SCHOKINAG’s existing chocolate
production lines and setting up additional machineries,
thereby expanding its annual production capacity from
90,000 MT to 100,000MT. Concurrently, we have appointed
a contractor to set up a new chocolate producing facility
in the United Kingdom, set to be completed in Q4 2022,
enabling us to expand our client base in the United
Kingdom and other international markets. As the global economy enters the post-pandemic era,
these strategic moves that we proactively made mean we
are both more integrated and more diversified than ever
before. This not only gives us access to more avenues for
growth but also mitigates against supply chain and demand
risks that persist.
