document_id: MDA_5202_MSM_2020
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 87, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
REVIEW
Generally, the business community in Malaysia is experiencing
tighter cash flow due to enforced business closures as part
of the government’s movement control order (MCO) from
March to May 2020. For the food and beverage sector,
manufacturers started regulating productions which directly
affects the consumption of sugar. Domestic economic
recovery has also been further hampered with the
Conditional Movement Control Order (CMCO) announced in
quarter 4 (Q4) of 2020 due to the third wave of COVID-19. This has caused a drop in domestic sugar consumption for
the wholesale and industry segment for 2020. The sharp slowdown in economic activities is expected to
contract Malaysia’s GDP by at least 3.1% in 2020 according to
World Bank projections. 2020 Performance Review
Overall, MSM’s financial performance was mainly affected
by lower sugar consumption in the domestic wholesale
and industry segment due to MCO since late March 2020. During the year under review, the Group’s domestic sales
volume dropped by 110,000 tonnes or 13% lower compared
to the prior year and revenue loss was approximately
RM118 million.
[MDA_P002]
During the initial phase of MCO, most of
the domestic customers suspended their operations whilst
During the
initial
phase
of MCO, most
of the
domestic
customers
suspended
their operations whilst the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been improving since Q3 2020
based onthe positive operational earnings ofthe Group since July 2020. “
“
2020 Market Overview
Global and local markets were hit by an unprecedented
impact from COVID-19 in 2020 that continues to reverberate
into 2021. This has changed the landscape of business and
challenged many industries, some of which, such as travel
and hospitality, are recording immense setbacks following
the travel bans and other virus containment measures
imposed by the Government. the Industry customers were facing export supply chain
disruptions. Nonetheless, consumption trends have been
improving since Q3 2020 based on the positive operational
earnings of the Group since July 2020. The weak sales volume in Domestic segment has been
supplemented by an increased Export segment sales volume.
[MDA_P003]
The refined sugar volume has recorded a significant increase
by almost threefold the volume recorded last year mainly
influenced by increase Premium which contributed to an
increase in revenue of more than RM200 million whilst new
export products such as Liquid Sugar (LS), Fine Syrup (FS) and
Premix Sugar (PS) contributed to an increase in revenue of
approximately more than RM80 million. On the operations and reliability front, MSM continued to
deliver up to customer expectations during the year and
ensured sufficient sugar supply towards the nation. One of
the highlights of the year was the celebration of ‘Gula Prai’
as a trusted brand, with over 50 years of experience in sugar
refining industries. Through the tagline ‘Sweetening the lives
of Malaysians since 1964’, a refreshed brand positioning was
introduced to strengthen brand positioning and create top of
mind awareness of Malaysia’s longest serving sugar brand. Towards this end, MSM also introduced a new packaging for
‘Gula Prai’ to reflect the brands long heritage in Malaysia.
[MDA_P005]
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REVIEW
During the year, MSM also made good strides on
executing planned key strategic initiatives. Raw sugar procurement through the Just-In-Time
method was set towards improving the Group’s cash
position from minimal raw sugar stockholding, lowering
Banker’s Acceptance (BA) interest cost and reducing
external warehouse rental expenses. The Board has
approved this initiative’s continuation through 2021 and
2022. We completed MSM Johor’s LS and FS capacity upgrade
to 12,000 tonnes/month. The upgraded FS lines were
successfully installed in November 2020 while LS lines
were completed in December 2020. The upgraded lines
are projected to contribute up to 14% utilisation factor
(UF) to MSM Johor. At present, the largest LS and FS
importer is China with Indonesia and Philippines also
identified as potential markets. Current existing world
suppliers are refiners in Thailand, Vietnam, UAE and
Malaysia. Another initiative that started in 2020 is to increase
MSM Johor’s yield. The yield factor is critical to the sugar
refining process as it determines the amount of sugar
loss during the production.
[MDA_P006]
MSM Prai, being a mature
plant, has been recording a yield of 96.5% from minimal
loss on sugar polarisation and molasses. At present,
MSM Johor’s yield hovers around 90% and management
has been rectifying this through spillage recovery
and re-melt of off-specs sugar into LS. We target to
achieve a yield above 93% in 2021. As part of the Group’s capacity rationalisation efforts,
operations at MSM Perlis refinery ceased in June 2020. The production has been gradually transferred to MSM
Johor to maximise the Johor plant’s UF by up to 12%,
based on MSM Perlis’s previous production trends. Since
the closure and subsequent capacity rationalisation, the
Group’s the Refining Cost (RC) reduced by 3% against
the prior year. Last but not least, the tender exercise for Trucking
Outsource by Refinery Location was concluded in
March 2020 and we expect distribution cost savings
of up to 10% from this outsourcing initiative. NY11 Raw Sugar Price 2020 and 2021
At macro level, global agricultural markets are stable as food
trade has remained more resilient than the overall trade.
