document_id: MDA_7216_KAWAN_2020
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 37, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
(cont’d)
The Food and Beverage (“F&B”) industry in which we operate experienced unprecedented supply and demand
volatility in FY2020. Movement restrictions impacted supply chain and operational efficiencies industry-wide, resulting
in growth of frozen food sales at grocers and retailers while, foodservice outlets experienced a dramatic reduction in
customer footfall for much of the year. Changes in customers’ purchasing and consumption behaviour are summarised
below:
F&B
Market Trends
and Consumer
Behaviour
Shift in food consumption behaviour from eating out to dining in
due to movement strictions and safety concerns
Rise of online shopping and food delivery services as shoppers
prioritised safety and convenience
Demand for home cooking and frozen products soared in place
of dining out
Consumers preferred convenient and healthier food options
Mainstream groceries and retailers gained market share from
the drop in food service demand
Despite facing a succession of challenges, our team rose to the occasion.
[MDA_P003]
With staff
strength numbering 660, we produce a range of food products including paratha, spring roll, pastry, frozen vegetable,
chapati, finger food, bakery and desserts that are sold under five brands:
Our products are exported to 37 territories and counting, utilising a range of distribution channels such as distributorship,
direct sales to key account customers, e-Commerce, and sales to retailers and wholesalers. Strategic Response
Given our reputation as a frozen food manufacturer, the pandemic-driven market trends worked in our favour as our
product ranges primarily service the home-dining segment, providing convenient, easy-to-prepare food products and
frozen-ready-meals for ease of consumption. The trend towards convenient and healthier food options is also aligned
with the Group’s growth strategy, while the e-Commerce collaborations established in previous years have prepared
us to meet the surge in digital sales. Our products are also widely available at grocers, retailers and convenience
stores where consumers are diverting their spending in place of foodservice.
[MDA_P004]
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Management Discussion and Analysis
(cont’d)
Against this backdrop, Kawan was well positioned to take advantage of these shifts in demand. We were mindful to
ensure that our manufacturing arm could continue production amid the pandemic to keep up with demand growth
while safeguarding the health of our operations staff. Our aim was not just to recover from the pandemic setbacks but
to drive growth in all business segments. To power our business through this global crisis, we implemented a range of mitigating measures throughout the year
to manage cashflow while focusing on maintaining liquidity and preserving the strong financial position of the Group
to capitalise on opportunities emerging in the landscape of the ‘new normal’. Ensuring Business Continuity
As a food manufacturing company, Kawan operates in the essential services sector. As such, we were able to continue
operating our manufacturing facilities for most of the year within the 50% workforce limit set during MCO while
observing social distancing and with other pandemic prevention measures in place.
[MDA_P005]
Our leadership team streamlined our production and product ranges in order to protect margins while maintaining
supply and availability. As the conditions began to progressively stabilise, we quickly rebuilt the mix elements of our
product ranges to continue to broaden our consumer choices. We leveraged on our insights in consumer behaviour
patterns in decision making. We activated our business continuity management processes in the early days of the pandemic, allowing non-
essential personnel to work off-site and utilised a range of traditional and digital channels of communication to
maintain operational efficiency. Pandemic prevention measures were put in place at our manufacturing facilities to
ensure that production can continue safely, while we leveraged the strong supply chain partnerships we built over the
years to ensure a steady supply of raw materials throughout the outbreak. This allowed us to sustain our production
and minimise supply disruption to our customers, who appreciated the high level of service provided during this
challenging period, and our ability to deliver orders on time.
[MDA_P008]
KAWAN FOOD BERHAD • ANNUAL REPORT 2020
Management Discussion and Analysis
(cont’d)
Diversifying our Range and Reach
As the initial supply-demand shocks subsided, we were able to rebuild our product inventory and continue on our
strategic intent to broaden our product range and provide more choices for consumers. Leveraging consumer
behavioural insights to guide our decision making, we created new recipes that add value for our customers and
branched into Frozen-Ready-Meals in FY2020. In tandem with the growth of our product range, Kawan also ramped up efforts to expand our distribution channels
to widen the market for our products. We further enhanced our business model to offer more products online while
engaging with our consumers via social media networks. Highlights Of Achievements
Notwithstanding the tremendous changes in both the consumer trend and economic landscape, Kawan surpassed
the year’s challenges to deliver a strong operational and financial performance for FY2020.
