document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
MARKET
OVERVIEW
OUTLOOK
As we navigate the strategic landscape
of our operations, it is essential to gain
a comprehensive understanding of
the prevailing conditions in the cocoa
market. This includes factors such as
supply and demand dynamics, price
fluctuations, economic challenges, and
sustainability milestones—all of which
influence our strategic approach in the
ever-evolving cocoa industry. While the Group acknowledges the
external factors beyond our control, we
remain steadfast in our commitment to
navigating these challenges. Our focus
will continue to be on seizing business
opportunities,
meeting
customer
demand, and generating sustainable
profits to support our long-term growth
objectives. Supply and Demand Dynamics
The cocoa industry experienced a continued supply
deficit during the 2023/24 crop year, following similar
shortages in the previous two crop years. This trend
was primarily driven by reduced cocoa production
in origin countries affected by adverse weather
conditions and diseases, leading to a 14.0% decline
in global cocoa grinding compared to the previous
crop year.
[MDA_P002]
However, there has been an increase in
the planting of cocoa seedlings in Indonesia and
certain regions of South America, which may help
improve future cocoa bean supplies. Price Volatility
The New York and London cocoa futures markets
experienced significant volatility in FY2024, reaching
an all-time high exceeding USD12,600 per MT on 18th
December 2024—an increase of 206% compared
to the previous year. This surge in prices has posed
challenges for cocoa grinders, who are facing higher
input costs for raw materials. In an effort to protect
their profit margins, and compounded by a shortage
of cocoa products, the prices of cocoa-derived
products have also risen. Economic Challenges
Global inflationary pressures have led to higher
interest rates, a trend that is likely to persist amid
ongoing uncertainty about the global economic
outlook. This uncertain economic climate may
dampen discretionary spending, as high household
debt-servicing costs limit consumers’ disposable
income.
[MDA_P003]
Côte d’Ivoire Presence Brings Us ‘Close To
Source’ And ‘Close To Market’
Our expansion into Côte d’Ivoire, the world’s largest
cocoa bean supplier, has strategically positioned us
closer to the source of cocoa beans, allowing us to
initiate sustainability projects from the very beginning
of the procurement process. This move enhances
our cost-effectiveness and strengthens our ability
to serve chocolate-consuming countries in Europe
and the UK, where the majority of our customers
are located. Our growing presence in Côte d’Ivoire
will undoubtedly solidify our long-term position as a
global leader in the chocolate supply chain. Economic Recession Concerns
The looming threat of an economic recession
presents additional challenges. The combination
of inflation, rising interest rates, and escalating
commodity prices may contribute to a global
economic slowdown. While the chocolate industry
is
often
viewed
as
recession-resistant—since
consumers tend to indulge in affordable luxuries
during economic downturns—the extent of this
resilience will depend on the broader economic
climate, including the impact of rising living costs,
such as food and housing expenses.
[MDA_P004]
Sustainability Advancements
FY2024
marked
a
significant
milestone
in
sustainability, with the EU formalising regulations
on
deforestation-free
products. In
response,
industry stakeholders are collaborating to ensure
comprehensive traceability throughout the cocoa
value chain, reinforcing their commitment to
sustainable practices. This focus on sustainability
is essential in offering consumers transparency
about the origin and production methods of cocoa
products, ultimately enhancing the credibility and
long-term sustainability of the entire industry. GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
[MDA_P005]
Leveraging Established Fundamentals To
Meet Stakeholder Expectations
To ensure that we not only meet but exceed the
expectations of our diverse stakeholders, we remain
committed to progress in our key focus areas:
profitability, reliability, business stability, and market
share. In our cocoa processing operations across key
grinding countries, we are dedicated to expanding
production capacity, enhancing product quality,
and prioritising cocoa sustainability, reinforcing our
commitment to ESG considerations in response to
the growing interest among our customer base. We
see
significant
growth
potential
through
capacity-driven initiatives, as demonstrated by
our expansions into new regions like Côte d’Ivoire,
Germany, and the UK since 2019. These strategic
moves reflect our ambitious plans for long-term
growth and have unlocked numerous opportunities
to complement and add value to our core business
of producing cocoa-derived food ingredients. A prime example of this is our integration into
industrial chocolate production.
