document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 18, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Revenue
RM 603.9
million
Profit After Tax (PAT)
RM 45.2
million
1.0 Three-A Resources Management Discussion & Analysis
Business Overview
Three-A Resources Berhad ("3A" or "the Company") is an investment
holding company that has been publicly listed since 2002, subsequently
transferred to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in 2008. Through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd
("SSSFI"), 3A operates as a leading manufacturer of food and beverage
ingredients. Originating as a caramel producer in 1977, SSSFI has since
diversified our product range, establishing our presence across various
global markets. Together, as a cohesive entity ("the Group"), 3A and
SSSFI remain committed to manufacturing excellence, with a core
focus on producing high-quality food and ingredients. Leveraging our
collective expertise, the Group has successfully extended our reach
beyond the confines of Asia where we now have an established
presence on the international stage. Our primary objective at 3A is to relentlessly pursue excellence in
our business operations.
[MDA_P003]
This moderation stemmed from various external challenges,
including a slowdown in global trade, the impact of the global tech
downcycle, geopolitical tensions, and the implementation of tighter
monetary policies. In spite of this, the outlook for 2024’s growth according to Bank
Negara Malaysia's Economic and Financial Developments in
Malaysia in the Fourth Quarter of 2023 will be fuelled by resilient
domestic spending and a recovery in external demand. The IMF
anticipates a substantial rebound in global trade growth, rising
from 0.4% in 2023 to 3.3% in 2024. This, coupled with the tech
upswing, increased external demand, and ongoing improvements
in the tourism sector, is poised to bolster Malaysia's exports. On
the domestic side, sustained employment and wage growth will
support household spending, whilst investments will gain momentum
through multi-year projects in both private and public sectors.
[MDA_P005]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
Statista, the market and consumer data provider also reveals that the
global revenue in the food market was forecast to continuously increase
between 2023 and 2028 by in total 3.6 trillion U.S. dollars (+38.46
percent). This market is poised for significant growth, projecting an
annual increase of 6% through the compound annual growth rate
(CAGR) from 2023 to 2028 indicating a favourable trend for 3A. With the
confectionery and snacks segment standing out as the market's largest
segment with an expected market revenue of US$1.77 trillion in 2024,
these global statistics show a positive potential for companies like 3A. In the prevailing economic climate, 3A's trajectory is significantly
influenced by current market dynamics, necessitating a diligent and
adaptable approach in our strategic deliberations. Throughout the fiscal
year 2023, the Group implemented initiatives aimed at enhancing our
business resilience, particularly in response to challenges encountered,
such as geopolitical risks affecting raw material expenses and the
escalation of inflationary pressures.
[MDA_P006]
As we progress forward, 3A remains
committed to navigating these economic conditions prudently, moving
towards a promising future. 2023 Business and Operational Performance
Performance Overview
Turning to business and operational performance, 3A experienced a
decrease of 8.3% in revenue (RM 54.8 million) in FY2023 compared to
the previous fiscal year. This reduction was attributed to lower quantities
of products sold, reflecting the broader economic challenges faced
during this period. The anticipated softening in consumer demand,
influenced by weakened consumer spending and increased competition
from new market entrants, is expected to affect the group accordingly. However, amidst the financial environment, there were positive indicators
wherein the Group's liquidity ratios, including the current ratio, quick
ratio, as well as cash and bank balances, demonstrated improvements. Exports
Singapore emerged as the primary export destination, constituting
10.3% of the total revenue in FY2023 as compared to 9.7% in FY2022. However, overall export revenue experienced a decline, amounting to
approximately RM 5.4 million less than FY2022.
[MDA_P007]
This reduction in export
revenue can be attributed primarily to diminished sales volumes during
FY2023, due to broader industry headwinds and subdued demand
compared to the preceding fiscal year. In response to these challenges,
the Group has remained vigilant, implementing adaptive strategies
to align with market dynamics and navigate industry fluctuations
effectively. We continue to prioritise agility and responsiveness in our
operations to capitalise on emerging opportunities and mitigate risks
in the global export arena. Earnings
The Group’s earnings demonstrated promising growth in FY2023, with
net profit surging by 29% or RM 10.1 million to RM 45.2 million. The
significant increase can be ascribed to several strategic factors. Firstly,
our focus on optimising our sales mix led to an improved average
selling price (ASP), bolstering our bottom line. Additionally, measures
to mitigate raw material costs and stabilise other industry-related
expenses contributed positively to our financial performance.
[MDA_P008]
Cost
controls implemented throughout FY2023 yielded substantial benefits
compared to the preceding fiscal year, improving our overall profitability
and positioning us favourably amidst evolving market dynamics. Assets and Liabilities
3A saw adjustments in our financial position in FY2023 where total
assets decreased by 0.66% (RM 3.384 million), whilst total liabilities
saw a significant decline of 38.08% (RM 33.869 million). In contrast,
shareholders' equity experienced a positive increase of 7.26% (RM
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
