document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 32, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
Managing director’s
review
Dear Shareholders,
In 2022, Malaysia’s economy strengthened with the
reopening of international borders and the transition
to the endemic phase of COVID-19. This had positively
impacted various industries, trade and investment-
related services. However, world economic activities
were adversely affected by monetary policy tightening,
surging inflation, fiscal restraints, and the continuing
Russian-Ukraine war. Despite the global and domestic economic challenges, the PPB Group had achieved
a commendable performance in 2022. All key segments contributed positively to the
increase in revenue and profitability of the Group, coupled with a higher contribution
from Wilmar International Limited. Economic
and
Operating
Environment in 2022
Overall,
the
Malaysian
economy
expanded by 8.7% in 2022. Private
sector
activity
remained
the
key
driver of growth, supported by private
consumption, investments and improving
labour market conditions.
[MDA_P004]
This
will be our core pillar of growth for 2023. Animal Feed Milling
The Animal Feed Milling business
environment remains challenging due
to market segment contraction as many
major customers switched to home
mixing or toll milling to cut costs. This
has compounded the already difficult
situation when independent farmers
had adopted integrated farming to
stay relevant and competitive which
impacted the businesses of independent
feed millers. The consolidation of the poultry farming
industry led to intense and increasing
market competition in the feed milling
industry. The
division
has
taken
steps to mitigate these challenges by
improving procurement efficiency for
greater effectiveness whilst focused
on
delivering
better
high-quality
feed at competitive prices and value. Concentrated efforts will be made to
widen our customer base to avoid
dependence on a few key customers
and expand our reach in the market. We will continue to explore other means
to mitigate pressures from the poultry
farming sector by diversifying the feed
products to other segments such as
ruminant feed, and to seek opportunities
for growth in downstream and through
product diversification.
[MDA_P007]
The reopening of borders in transitioning
to the endemic phase and the return of
foreign workers have mitigated the acute
labour constraints, enabling the division
to improve its manpower management
and sustain business operations. Working capital has risen along with
higher inventory holding cost. Borrowing
costs have also increased due to higher
interest rates and raw material prices. Meanwhile, we will continue to be
prudent in our credit control. Despite
the volatility of commodity prices, our
earnings prospects for this segment
are expected to be satisfactory as we
navigate this challenge. CONSUMER PRODUCTS SEGMENT
The Consumer Products segment is the
second-highest contributor to Group
revenue. This segment encompasses the
Consumer Products Distribution, Bakery
and Food Processing businesses. The Consumer Products Distribution
division under FFM Marketing Sdn Bhd
(“FMSB”) has an established strong
distribution
network
and
currently
distributes a wide range of fast-moving
consumer goods (“FMCG”) comprising
both in-house and agency products. FMSB presently operates 13 warehouses
across Malaysia, with a total warehousing
capacity of 450,000 sq. ft.
[MDA_P008]
The Italian Baker Sdn Bhd (“TIB”), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of FFM Berhad,
operates a state-of-the-art industrial
bakery in Pulau Indah, Klang. TIB
currently has production lines consisting
of 16,000 loaves-per-hour bread lines, a
24,000 rolls-per-hour roll line, a 15,000
pieces-per-hour cake line and a 6,000
buns-per-hour line. The Group’s food processing business
under FFM Further Processing Sdn Bhd
(“FFP”) operates two production lines at
Pulau Indah, producing premium ready-
to-eat sausages, pan-fried nuggets and
burgers for the Malaysian market. Consumer Products Distribution
Two
years
after
the
outbreak
of
the pandemic, raw materials prices
continued to rise putting pressure on
our production costs. Our operations
were unable to keep pace with the raw
material price increases which led to
higher product prices. In addition to rising direct costs,
labour expenditure had also impacted
production costs due to the increase in
minimum wage in Malaysia. However, despite these challenges, the
frozen food segment showed improved
margins in the second half of 2022 after
an increase in product prices. Bakery
TIB
continued
to
generate
higher
revenue in 2022 than the previous
year.
[MDA_P009]
The bread market during the year
remained stable. However, the market is expected to face
increased competition in 2023, with
more participants including expansion
of artisan bakeries. TIB plans to meet
this challenge by further increasing
efficiency, controlling costs, introducing
more unique products, and expanding
distribution channels. Food Processing
The Food Processing division faced
similar challenges as the Consumer
Products Distribution division namely,
labour shortage, inflation, higher interest
rates and supply instability. Going into 2023, FFP will continue to
innovate and add new products to its
portfolio in meeting food service, and
retail demand. We expect a challenging
year in 2023, marked by cost pressures
and
tight
operational
margins
but
with prudent cost management and
production optimisation, we can stay
efficient and competitive. Transition to COVID-19 Endemicity
The
Consumer
Products
segment
continued to face higher operational
costs
as
we
maintained
stringent
health and safety measures such as
sanitisation, medical screenings and
equipping the workplace with adequate
hygiene facilities.
