document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 82, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Strategic Review
Market Overview
Outlook
Our Value Creation Story
Value Creation Business Model
Key Stakeholder Engagement
Material Matters
Key Risks & Mitigation Actions
Growth Strategies
Financial Review
Financial Review
Operational Performance Review
Operational Performance Review
[MDA_P002]
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Operational Performance Review
Financial Review
Strategic Review
Supply & Demand Dynamics
The cocoa industry grappled with a persistent supply deficit
in the 2022/23 crop year, following a similar deficit in the
previous 2021/22 crop year. This trend primarily stemmed
from reduced cocoa production in origin countries affected
by adverse weather and diseases, leading to a decline in
global cocoa grinding by 4.0% compared to the preceding
crop year. However, there has been increased planting of
cocoa seedlings in Indonesia and certain regions of South
America, which may improve future cocoa bean supplies. Price Volatility
The New York and London cocoa futures markets
experienced considerable volatility in 2023, reaching
35-year and 46-year highs of more than USD4,200 and
GBP3,500 per MT. Both prices have continued to rise
and reach new historical highs in 2024. This price surge
has presented a challenge for cocoa grinders, who face
increased input costs for raw materials. Under pressure
to ensure their profit margins, they may actively explore
ways to pass on the increased cost to customers along
the value chain.
[MDA_P003]
This will place upward pressure on prices
across the cocoa industry, with market players grappling
with the dilemma of raising prices or absorbing costs to
maintain competitiveness. Economic Challenges
The prevailing global inflationary pressures have prompted
an uptick in interest rates, a trend that is likely to persist
due to the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the global
economic outlook. Concurrently, this gloomy economic
outlook may impact discretionary spending, primarily
due to the burden of high household debt-servicing costs
limiting customers' disposable income. As we navigate through the strategic landscape of our operations, it is essential to gain a comprehensive understanding of
the prevailing conditions in the cocoa market, such as supply and demand dynamics, price fluctuations, economic challenges
and sustainability milestones, all of which shape our strategic approach in the ever-evolving cocoa industry. Economic Recession Concerns
The looming possibility of an economic recession poses
further challenges. The combination of inflation, higher
interest rates and escalating commodity prices could
result in a global economic slowdown.
[MDA_P004]
While the chocolate
industry is often considered recession-resistant, driven by
people's inclination to indulge in affordable luxuries during
economic downturns, the extent of this resilience hinges on
the overall economic climate and broader impact of rising
living costs, including escalating food prices and housing
expenses. Sustainability Advancements
FY2023 marked a significant milestone in sustainability as
the EU formalised regulations pertaining to deforestation-
free products. In response to this development, industry
stakeholders are collaboratively working to ensure
comprehensive traceability throughout the cocoa value
chain, reaffirming their commitment to sustainable
practices. This commitment is instrumental in providing
consumers with transparency regarding the origin and
production methods of cocoa products, furthering the
credibility and long-term sustainability of the industry as
whole. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
MARKET OVERVIEW
[MDA_P005]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2023
While the Group acknowledges the
presence of external factors beyond
our control, we remain committed to
navigating through these headwinds
by maintaining our focus on seizing
business
opportunities,
fulfilling
customer demand and generating
sustainable profits to support our
growth objectives.
Navigating the Surge in
Historic Cocoa Bean Prices
In 2024, cocoa bean prices soared to
unprecedented heights, fuelled by
a global deficit caused by adverse
weather conditions and widespread
diseases in origin countries. In response
to this challenge, we have implemented
strategic measures to navigate the
heightened costs and ensure the
sustainability of our operations.
[MDA_P007]
Additionally, we maintain proactive
communication
with
our
banking
facilities, securing ample trade and
working capital lines. Amidst prevailing
market uncertainties, our steadfast
commitment
remains
focused
on
sustaining the quality of our products
and navigating these challenges with
resilience. Côte d'Ivoire Presence Brings Us
"Close to Source" & "Close to Market"
Our expansion into Côte d'Ivoire, the
world's largest cocoa bean supplying
country, has brought us closer to
the source of cocoa beans, allowing
us to initiate sustainability projects
from the very beginning of the cocoa
bean
procurement
process. This
strategic
expansion
enhances
our
cost-effectiveness,
enabling
us
to
better
reach
chocolate-consuming
countries in Europe and the UK, where
most of our customers are located. Our growing presence in Côte d'Ivoire
will undeniably strengthen our long-
term position as a global player in the
chocolate supply chain. Prepared to Mitigate Recession
Impacts & Rising Costs
High interest rates and inflation have
begun to impact household spending
power.
