document_id: MDA_5187_HBGLOB_2024
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 14, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Bhd., the company
engages in agriculture, aquaculture, infrastructure
projects, and renewable energy. A major milestone
was achieved in December 2024 when HBGL
entered into a Joint Venture Cum Shareholders’
Agreement with HIS Holdings Sdn. Bhd. to develop
artificial intelligence technology-driven agriculture
and plantation activities. This joint venture, named
HB Global Capital Sdn. Bhd. marks a strategic step
towards innovation and sustainable growth in the
sector. Mission Statement
The company’s mission is to provide the best products
and services with innovative solutions to customers
worldwide, aiming to be a leader in inventing new
mechanical solutions to assist various industries and
businesses. HBGL’s business objectives are centred on
expanding its product offerings, exploring new market
opportunities, and embracing sustainability and
innovation. The company is committed to leveraging
advanced technologies to enhance product quality
and operational efficiency, while also diversifying
its portfolio, to include sectors such as agriculture,
aquaculture, infrastructure and renewable energy.
[MDA_P003]
Strategic partnerships and joint ventures are integral
to HBGL’s approach to achieving sustainable growth
and delivering value to stakeholders. Operation Review
Enhancing Production Capabilities
HBGL’s food processing division has expanded its
production
efficiency
through
automation
and
advanced
food
preservation
techniques. The
integration of modern processing equipment and
stringent quality control measures has allowed
the Group to optimise yield, reduce waste, and
improve product consistency. The adoption of eco-
friendly packaging solutions also aligns with global
sustainability trends. Dear Valued Shareholders,
It is my privilege, on behalf of the
Board of Directors of HB Global Limited
(“HBGL” or “the Group”), to present
the
Management
Discussion
and
Analysis (“MD&A”) for the Company
and its subsidiaries for the ﬁnancial
year ended 31 December 2024 (“FYE
2024”). The MD&A presents a comprehensive
review of the Group’s operational
and
financial
performance
for
the twelve (12) months ended 31
December 2024. This report should be
read in conjunction with the Audited
Financial Statements for FYE 2024
and the accompanying notes.
[MDA_P005]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Expansion into High-Growth Sectors
HBGL has broadened its portfolio by venturing into
large-scale
agriculture
and
aquaculture. These
initiatives support both sustainable food production
and export markets, catering to the growing demand
for sustainable food sources. Leveraging Technology for Operational Efﬁciency
As part of its digital transformation strategy, HBGL
also leveraged in data-driven decision-making tools
and AI-powered supply chain analytics to improve
efficiency, productivity, and sustainability. These allow
for real-time monitoring of production processes,
improved
inventory
management,
and
better
demand forecasting. The recent joint venture with HIS
Holdings Sdn. Bhd. further reinforces the Group’s focus
on AI-driven agriculture, enabling greater scalability
and efficiency in its plantation and farming activities. Strengthening Market Presence and Strategic Partnerships
To drive business growth, HBGL has expanded its distribution networks and strategic alliances.
[MDA_P006]
The Group
has entered into partnerships with regional and international retailers, distributors, and institutional buyers,
strengthening its market position across key territories. By aligning its offerings with evolving consumer preferences,
HBGL remains competitive in the global food and agribusiness sector. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Revenue
Cost of Sales
Gross Margin
Gross Proﬁt
RMB80.7 million
RMB(65.4) million
19%
RMB15.3 million
Financial Review
In FYE 2024, the Group recorded revenue of RMB80.7 million, continuing its positive momentum following the
modest increase of RMB0.7 million (approximately 0.8%) in FYE 2023. The growth in both years was primarily
attributable to stronger sales from the China subsidiary, reflecting the Group’s recovery from earlier disruptions in
production and supply chains due to regional lockdowns during the Covid-19 resurgence. Gross profit in FYE 2024 stood at RMB15.3 million, with cost of sales amounting to RMB65.4 million. Other income
for the year was RMB2.6 million, lower than RMB7 million in FYE 2023.
[MDA_P007]
Despite the decline in other income, the
Group significantly reduced its loss for the year to RMB3.6 million, compared to a net loss before taxation of
RMB45.8 million in FYE 2023. The improved performance was primarily driven by effective cost control and the absence of major non-recurring
expenses. Notably, there were no other operating expenses recorded in FYE 2024, compared to RMB28.5 million
in FYE 2023, which included impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets. In addition,
an impairment loss on financial assets amounting to RMB1.3 million was recognised in FYE 2023, whereas no such
impairment was recorded in FYE 2024. Overall, the Group’s performance in FYE 2024 demonstrates continued operational recovery and financial
discipline, supported by revenue growth, lower operating costs, and improved bottom-line results. Revenue
In FYE 2024, the Group recorded a revenue of RMB80.7 million, reflecting a 0.8% slight increase compared to the
previous year’s revenue of RMB 80 million.
