document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2021
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 55, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CORPORATE
STRATEGY: SAIL’22
OUR TWO
ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OUR THREE
STRATEGIC LEVERS
DEFEND OUR
LICENCE
TO OPERATE
CREATE A
WINNING
CULTURE
STRENGTHEN
THE CORE
POSITION
FOR GROWTH
DELIVER
VALUE FOR
SHAREHOLDERS
“Go Big in Premium” with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
Somersby Cider, Asahi Super Dry and
Connor’s Stout Porter
“Innovate With Digital” to enhance the role of
digitalisation in our operations
Achieve “Growth in Net Profit”
Deliver Stable Dividend Yield for Shareholders
“Grow in Mainstream” with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and
Carlsberg Smooth Draught
“Win in Each Store” with better in-store execution
“Funding the Journey” by delivering efficiencies in
Operating Expenses and Value Management
[MDA_P002]
Our Business
Message from Our Leaders
Creating Sustainable Value
Delivering Strong Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The prolonged lockdown and various restrictions
continued to weigh on the true growth potential
of our mainstream brands as production,
distribution and consumption were severely
disrupted.
Our mainstream brands Carlsberg Danish Pilsner
and Carlsberg Smooth Draught continued to be
impacted with total volume for Malaysia and
Singapore declining by 11% compared to 2020.
With dine-in not permitted and entertainment
outlets remaining closed for almost two years,
we witnessed a shift in consumer behaviour and
purchase to off-trade.
Nevertheless, building on the experience gained
in 2020, we were better prepared to navigate the
market dynamics through value management
strategies, and defended brand equity through
a series of nationwide campaigns.
[MDA_P004]
Flaunting a
new bottle, fresher cap and new design, we also
introduced the Carlsberg Smooth Draught on
tap, completing the new refreshed look across
the entire product range. To CELEBRATE the passion of our football
fans in Malaysia and Singapore, we launched
a limited edition CHEERS TO FOOTBALL
packaging to pay tribute to football fans for
their undying support and love for the sport. Our limited edition Carlsberg tees were curated
with the intention of keeping the excitement
and frenzy for football alive so that they could
continue to cheer for their favourite teams at
home with Carlsberg limited edition bottles,
cans and exclusive merchandise. In 2022, we will continue to CELEBRATE all
occasions, from cultural festivals to every goal
scored in international football. And speaking
of football, we will be toasting the longest
partnership in the English Premier League’s
history with a soon-to-be-unveiled special
edition Carlsberg X Liverpool set featuring six
Liverpool legends. GROW IN MAINSTREAM
STRENGTHEN THE CORE
[MDA_P005]
Our Business
Message from Our Leaders
Creating Sustainable Value
Delivering Strong Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
WIN IN EACH STORE
FUND THE JOURNEY
2021 marked the second year that on-trade
consumption
was
dampened
by
various
restrictions on dine-ins, social distancing and
operating hours, as well as the slower reopening
of bars, pubs and restaurants and the temporary
closure of entertainment outlets, which have yet
to be allowed to reopen. This adversely affected our modern on-
trade channel and permanently changed the
behaviour of a segment of consumers who now
prefer to enjoy their drinks in the safety of their
homes. Our response since the first year of the
pandemic has been agile, quick and consistent,
as we re-channelled our focus and investment
to the off-trade channel to capture the increased
demand. We reorganised internal resources and
re-strategised commercial activities to drive
sales through e-commerce, convenience stores,
mini markets, supermarkets and hypermarkets.
[MDA_P006]
In 2020, off-trade sales surpassed on-trade and
this trend continued to grow in 2021. We believe
this will continue to be the case in 2022, despite
the vaccination-induced herd immunity and
relaxation of restrictions to allow for dine-in and
travel, as this behaviour has now become the
norm, especially in Singapore. To capitalise on this trend in Malaysia, Carlsberg
Smooth Draught collaborated with Fizzics,
a draught beer dispenser manufacturer, and
launched our very own beer dispenser to enable
consumers to replicate the draught experience
at home. The Fizzics draught beer dispenser
utilises Micro-Foam Technology that converts a
can or bottle of Carlsberg Smooth Draught into
the perfect pour. Towards the end of 2021, dine-in restrictions
were gradually lifted and we witnessed a
strong recovery in on-trade sales, especially in
Malaysia, and we are hopeful that this trend will
continue. The return of consumers to bars and
restaurants, as well as the reopening of local
tourism and, eventually, international travel, will
help to drive footfall to and accelerate the slow
recovery of on-trade outlets.
