document_id: MDA_7243_MAGMA_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 26, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P009]
Meanwhile, intangible assets saw a considerable reduction to RM1.92 million from RM5.31 million as at 31 Dec
2022, indicative of changes in the valuation of hotel management rights or potential amortisation effects. Current assets also saw a rise to RM93.80 million, up from RM66.42 million in the previous year, with a notable
increase in inventories and trade receivables, which may reflect an uptick in business activity and improved revenue
collection processes. On the liabilities side, the Group witnessed the total liabilities increase to RM140.60 million from RM156.13 million in
the previous year. Equity saw a considerable rise, with total equity increasing to RM104.61 million from RM65.69 million. This increase in
equity boosts the Group’s financial robustness and ability to finance future growth. These financial dynamics showcase a year where Magma Group Berhad leveraged market opportunities, enhanced
operational capabilities, and navigated the economic uncertainties to strengthen its asset base and financial stability.
[MDA_P013]
The decision on the declaration of interim dividends and the recommendation of final dividends remains
at the discretion of the Board of Directors (“BOD”), taking into account various factors such as the Group’s financial
performance, capital expenditure needs, overall financial health, and other relevant considerations. While it is Magma’s
intention to reward shareholders through dividends in the future, such distributions will be carefully evaluated against
the backdrop of the Group’s operational and financial landscape. Corporate Developments
In FYE2023, Magma Group Berhad embarked on several strategic developments that marked significant milestones
in the Company’s journey. A pivotal moment was the revaluation exercise conducted on leasehold lands and buildings
across the Company and its subsidiaries, leading to a substantial fair value gain of RM37.06 million. This revaluation
underscores the underlying value in Magma’s real estate assets and bolsters the Group’s financial standing. A significant legal development during the year was the withdrawal of a lawsuit by Public Bank Berhad against
Magma, including its wholly-owned subsidiary, Astaka Mekar.
[MDA_P014]
This resolution removes a potential obstacle, paving the
way for smoother operations and strategic initiatives. A noteworthy corporate identity change was also undertaken, with Impiana Hotels Berhad transitioning to Magma
Group Berhad, symbolised by a change in the stock short name from IMPIANA to MAGMA. This rebranding reflects a
new strategic direction and a broader vision for the Group’s future. Management Discussion & Analysis
(Overview of Group Business)
cont’d
MAGMA GROUP BERHAD (fka Impiana Hotels Berhad) 200601021085 (740838-A)
[MDA_P015]
To bolster its financial capacity, Magma undertook a private placement of 10% of the total number of issued shares,
which successfully raised RM19.52 million. The exercise, completed on 15 December 2023, saw a total listing of 85.93
million shares. Alongside this, the Group raised additional funds through Redeemable Convertible Notes (“RCN”),
significantly enhancing its cash position with RM32.50 million raised, thus providing a solid foundation for future
growth and development initiatives.
These corporate developments collectively mark a year of strategic realignment, expansion, and financial fortification
for Magma Group Berhad, setting a robust platform for the Group to capture emerging opportunities and navigate the
dynamic business landscape in the years ahead.
Business Risks Review
The performances of the Company and its subsidiaries in the hospitality business are dependent on the following key
risk areas:
a.
Economic Environment and Natural Disasters Impact on Hospitality Sector
[MDA_P016]
In FYE2023, the dynamics of travel and tourism spending, inherently discretionary and sensitive to economic
fluctuations, continued to shape the hospitality industry. Factors such as transportation and accommodation
supply and demand, economic growth rates, interest rates, inflation, and broader economic trends directly
influence travel and tourism activities. Moreover, the sector’s vulnerability to natural and public health disasters,
exemplified by the global COVID-19 pandemic, poses ongoing challenges to the operational stability and
resilience of the Group’s assets.
[MDA_P017]
To navigate these complexities, the Group proactively monitors economic indicators and potential risks, enabling
the formulation of pre-emptive strategies to mitigate adverse impacts. The previous fiscal period’s reopening of
borders and economies heralded a resurgence in the Group’s Hotel Operation and Hotel Management segments,
signalling a recovery from the pandemic’s extensive economic and human toll. However, the latent threat of
future pandemics underscores the need for vigilance and preparedness.
[MDA_P018]
In response to the heightened awareness of public health risks, the Group has prioritised the implementation of
rigorous “clean and safe” protocols, aligning with international standards. This commitment to safety, evidenced
by the adoption of strict Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and pursuit of globally recognized certifications,
aims to reassure guests of the Group’s dedication to health and safety. Drawing lessons from the COVID-19
experience, the Group is better equipped to address financial and operational challenges that may arise from
future epidemics or pandemics.
b.
Managing Foreign Exchange Risk
[MDA_P019]
The Group’s engagement in international transactions, particularly under hotel management agreements
denominated in various currencies, exposes it to foreign exchange risk. Fluctuations in the currencies of the
countries where the Group operates could potentially impact its financial performance.
