document_id: MDA_7103_SPRITZER_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 29, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS OVERVIEW
The Malaysian economy grew by 5.0% in the fourth
quarter of 2024. This performance was supported by
strong expansion in investment activities, growth in
export of goods and services and sustained household
spending. For the overall 2024, Malaysia’s economy had
achieved 5.1% growth marking a significant growth from
the 3.7% achieved in 2023 driven by stronger domestic
demand and higher investment. This marked a shift from
the slower growth in 2023, which was affected by weaker
global demand and tighter monetary conditions. In 2024,
better investor confidence, a rebound in tourism and
construction, and easing inflation boosted household
spending. Overall, improved local and global conditions
helped Malaysia recover and strengthen its economic
performance compared to the previous year. Our Group’s revenue continued to reflect this economic
strength, achieving an encouraging 21% growth in the
current quarter and 18% for overall 2024.
[MDA_P006]
SPRITZER BHD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
In line with our innovation agenda, we have begun adopting generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) within the past year to
support functions, content creation, market analysis, and customer engagement, with employees using tools like Copilot and
ChatGPT to improve productivity. While still in the early stages, this technology is expected to enhance operational efficiency
and decision-making over time. We are also exploring the potential of agentic AI to further automate routine processes and
optimise resource utilisation, with the goal of improving productivity and responsiveness across our operations. Sustainability remains a strategic priority. We have introduced eco-friendly packaging and are collaborating with partners to
reduce packaging waste and improve recycling rates, contributing to a greener and more sustainable future. Our strategies are guided by trustworthiness, integrity, respect, and open collaboration—values that drive innovation,
excellence, and inclusive growth in the competitive bottled water industry.
[MDA_P021]
The Group has committed to installing additional 632 kWp
solar PV panels at its Shah Alam plant in 2025. Property development
During the financial year, on February 8, 2024, Spritzer
Development Sdn Bhd (“SD”), a wholly-owned subsidiary
entered into a Joint Venture Agreement (“JVA”) with KNP
Development Sdn Bhd (“KNP”), a company incorporated
in Malaysia, to jointly develop a piece of land located in
Perak measuring approximately 5.78 acres into a housing
development project to build residential houses subject to
and upon the terms and conditions contained in the JVA. SD will be the Developer and KNP the Landowner. This
project is estimated to commence in the final quarter of
2025. Human capital
As of December 31, 2024, the Group has a workforce of
1,101 employees (2023: 1,036). ANTICIPATED AND KNOWN RISKS
The Group is sensitive to various risks which include
reputational risk, business/operations risks, financial risks,
cybersecurity risks, sustainability risks and regulatory risks. The Group’s risk management framework is designed
to enable the material risks to be identified, analysed,
assessed, and managed in order to prevent or minimise
losses.
[MDA_P022]
Reputation Risk
Being the leading bottled water company with dominant
market share, our core brands have high brand equity. To
sustain and to enhance the image and reputation of the
Group and our branded products, we are committed to
high product quality and cultivate strong discipline to
improve continuously. We cultivate ethical and responsible
business behaviour with a strong culture to manage and to
ensure compliance with the applicable standards, internal
policies and procedures, external rules and regulations,
and good practices. We invest in and focus on effective
communication, image, and brand building. We are
also mindful of the emergence of certain brand boycott
activities in Malaysia. Business Operations Risks
Our significant business operations risks include the risk
of adequacy and suitability of water supply, supply chain
risk, customer/consumer loyalty risk, regulatory risk, anti-
bribery, and corruption risks. We have suitably qualified and
experienced personnel to manage our business operations
and we have established proper business processes to
ensure the proper mitigation and management of our
business operations risks.
[MDA_P023]
We constantly strive to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of our entire value chain. Financial Risks
Our key financial risks are credit risk and liquidity and cash
flow risk. We have established proper credit evaluation
and control processes to manage the credit risk of our
receivables. We practise prudent liquidity risk management
to minimise the mismatch of our financial assets and
financial liabilities and we have adequate credit facilities
and resources for contingency funding requirement. The
Group has a healthy balance sheet and strong financial
capability to manage its financial risk. Cybersecurity Risks
As digital reliance grows, the Group faces increased
cybersecurity
risks
including
data
breaches
and
unauthorised
access. To
address
this,
we
have
implemented comprehensive safeguards such as antivirus
software, firewalls, and 24/7 threat monitoring. Data is
protected through strong password policies, multi-factor
authentication, and restricted access. Regular system
updates, data backups, and a disaster recovery plan
ensure resilience. Employee training and physical security
measures further strengthen our defences.
