document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2022
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 32, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
Managing director’s
review
Dear Shareholders,
In 2022, Malaysia’s economy strengthened with the
reopening of international borders and the transition
to the endemic phase of COVID-19. This had positively
impacted various industries, trade and investment-
related services. However, world economic activities
were adversely affected by monetary policy tightening,
surging inflation, fiscal restraints, and the continuing
Russian-Ukraine war. Despite the global and domestic economic challenges, the PPB Group had achieved
a commendable performance in 2022. All key segments contributed positively to the
increase in revenue and profitability of the Group, coupled with a higher contribution
from Wilmar International Limited. Economic
and
Operating
Environment in 2022
Overall,
the
Malaysian
economy
expanded by 8.7% in 2022. Private
sector
activity
remained
the
key
driver of growth, supported by private
consumption, investments and improving
labour market conditions.
[MDA_P002]
Although
exports moderated in line with weaker
external demand, the services and
manufacturing sectors had continued to
drive economic recovery. The Group’s performance improved in
tandem with the recovery in economic
and business activities, with all our
core segments performing better. We
will continually enhance operational
efficiencies while instilling a culture of
excellence. GRAINS AND AGRIBUSINESS SEGMENT
The Grains and Agribusiness segment
is the major contributor to the Group’s
revenue. This segment comprises flour
milling, feed milling, corn trading and
livestock farming, contributing 74% of
the Group’s revenue and 3% of profit in
FY2022. FFM Berhad (“FFM”) Group, an 80%
subsidiary of PPB, owns and operates
nine flour mills, of which five are located
in Malaysia, two in Vietnam and one
in Indonesia, with a total flour milling
capacity of 6,870 mt/ day. In Thailand, the
Group operates a 670 mt/ day flour mill
through its 43.4% associate, Kerry Flour
Mills Limited. FFM also has 20% interest
in eight associates in China, which have a
combined flour milling capacity of 18,950
mt/ day.
[MDA_P003]
FFM owns and operates five feed mills
across Malaysia, with a total milling
capacity amounting to 66,000 mt/ month. The
livestock
farming
operations
comprise a layer farm in Trong, Perak
and two breeder farms in Sua Betong,
Negeri Sembilan and Gurun, Kedah. The
production capacity of the Trong layer
farm is estimated at 20.5 million eggs
per month, while the breeder farms have
a combined production capacity of about
3.05 million chicks per month. Flour Milling
FFM Group’s revenue growth in 2022
was mainly driven by improved selling
prices for flour and by-products from
all flour mills. However, the quantum of
increase was insufficient to offset the
impact of the unprecedented high wheat
costs, hedging losses in an extremely
volatile commodity market and supply
disruption caused by the Russia-Ukraine
war. As a result, producers were seeking
alternative sources of wheat to mitigate
rising production costs. Moving forward,
we foresee growth in the domestic
market going into 2023 as manufacturers
increase production to cater to a
higher demand. We plan to expand
our market share by focusing on sales
growth to institutional clients without
compromising on product quality.
[MDA_P004]
This
will be our core pillar of growth for 2023. Animal Feed Milling
The Animal Feed Milling business
environment remains challenging due
to market segment contraction as many
major customers switched to home
mixing or toll milling to cut costs. This
has compounded the already difficult
situation when independent farmers
had adopted integrated farming to
stay relevant and competitive which
impacted the businesses of independent
feed millers. The consolidation of the poultry farming
industry led to intense and increasing
market competition in the feed milling
industry. The
division
has
taken
steps to mitigate these challenges by
improving procurement efficiency for
greater effectiveness whilst focused
on
delivering
better
high-quality
feed at competitive prices and value. Concentrated efforts will be made to
widen our customer base to avoid
dependence on a few key customers
and expand our reach in the market. We will continue to explore other means
to mitigate pressures from the poultry
farming sector by diversifying the feed
products to other segments such as
ruminant feed, and to seek opportunities
for growth in downstream and through
product diversification.
[MDA_P006]
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
labour shortages affecting the industry. Currently, only 4.8% of broiler production
in Peninsular Malaysia is exported to
Singapore. The egg production industry faced a
similar situation in 2022, resulting in a
significant shortage of egg supplies both
domestically and for export to Singapore. To meet the local demand, Malaysia
imported chicken eggs to address the
country’s egg supply shortage. The local production of both table eggs
and broiler chicken historically has
exceeded demand, with approximately
9.4%
of
table
eggs
exported
to
Singapore and Hong Kong and 4.8% of
broiler chickens exported to Singapore
in the year. Looking ahead, we will emphasize
economies of scale in our operations to
reduce production costs, by increasing
product output. Transition to COVID-19 Endemicity
The
Grains
and
Agribusiness
segment’s growth prospects in the
endemic phase remain uncertain due
to ongoing geopolitical tensions and
continuing
supply
chain
disruption. These uncertainties will result in higher
operations, distribution, and logistics
costs.
