document_id: MDA_2836_CARLSBG_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 68, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P005]
Carlsberg paid tribute to and honoured the beautiful arts and culture, amazing wildlife and
natural wonders of the Borneo islands by launching six limited-edition festive cans featuring
the orangutan, majestic mountains and rafflesia of Sabah, as well as the longhouse, hornbill
and sape of Sarawak. The six-month-long campaign received overwhelming response. Local
consumers were proud to see an international brand promoting local icons and thus, many
purchased our beverages as collectible and celebration brews.
•
Carlsberg’s 30-year partnership with Liverpool FC anniversary campaign
[MDA_P013]
WHO WE ARE
SAILING
FORWARD
PRIORITIES
AND COMMITMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
LEADERSHIP
CREATING
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
In 2022, we started planning for the
implementation of a new industry-leading
end-to-end supply chain system, OnePlan,
which connects all aspects of supply chain
planning including demand, supply, inventory,
production and materials planning. This will
help us to optimise our processes and reduce
manual work, while achieving better integration
in our planning processes. Challenges Faced
We met the challenges of disruptive sales forecasts and uncertainties
in the trade as on-trade outlets reopened. We managed to overcome
these challenges by improving our data and analytic processes in
order to seize opportunities for greater efficiencies and effectiveness
in supply planning and distribution. Sailing Forward
As we transition to SAIL’27, we will keep improving our FIT execution
and leverage the use of a new business-to-business online ordering
system - Carl’s Shop - to drive portfolio mix and premiumisation.
[MDA_P014]
Fund the Journey by delivering efficiencies and building
growth capabilities
Our Fund the Journey culture drives efficiencies in our businesses
and helps us to reduce costs in the long run by prioritising the
reinvestment of our financial capital into our commercial growth
agenda. This strategic priority has been well integrated since its
introduction in 2016 as part of SAIL’22. It has since matured to
a point where we are leveraging value management to build
growth capabilities, accelerating cost optimisation initiatives and
delivering higher supply chain efficiency. A key milestone in 2022 was the decision to channel RM108
million of capital expenditure into replacing two bottling lines
with a state-of-the-art glass bottling line. This will not only
deliver higher production efficiency, but also enable greater
flexibility in packaging options and improve our sustainability
performance in terms of energy usage and waste management. This was a huge facility upgrade that saw the dismantling of the
old lines and which took many skilled workers and engineers
approximately 40 weeks to complete.
[MDA_P015]
Challenges Faced
As with any other project of such scale and complexity,
especially amid the global supply chain disruption and labour
shortages, we experienced delays in installation and faced a
slower rate of production initially. However, we overcame this challenge by conducting rigorous
testing-and-commissioning to resolve technical glitches. We
also deployed risk mitigation measures and interventions with
additional technical experts and increased production hours to
meet the year-end festive and Chinese New Year peak seasons. Sailing Forward
As we enter the first year of SAIL’27, our Malaysia operations
will be operationalising the OnePlan programme by the
second half of 2023 to reduce complexity in demand and
supply planning. This single, harmonised way of planning will
transform our ways of working in the commercial, procurement
and finance areas and enable us to identify capacity constraints
quicker than today and respond faster to demand. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
[MDA_P016]
WHO WE ARE
SAILING
FORWARD
PRIORITIES
AND COMMITMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Integrated Annual Report 2022
LEADERSHIP
CREATING
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
in collaboration with French artist Michaël Cailloux. Finally, we
capped off the year with the month-long #GoodTasteWithATwist
Rue 1664 campaign that transported our guests to a Parisian
street for an immersive drinking experience. Connor’s Stout Porter outperformed its competition in terms
of growth with a 71% increase in total volume in Malaysia and
Singapore from 2021 to 2022. In 2022, we also launched new Connor’s glassware that was
designed to deliver a smooth, roasty, creamy and well-bodied
drinking experience. The new and sleek glassware was very well
received by consumers and customers alike as evidenced by an
uptick in sales in Malaysia and Singapore. Leveraging the reopening
of on-trade outlets, we also conducted a nationwide sampling of
Connor’s-in-cans packaging as consumers enjoyed the premium
draught-like drinking experience in traditional on-trade.
[MDA_P021]
WHO WE ARE
SAILING
FORWARD
PRIORITIES
AND COMMITMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
LEADERSHIP
CREATING
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
Build New Revenue Streams with Alcohol-Free Brews
and e-Commerce
When SAIL’22 was first introduced in 2016, we recognised
that the preference for craft beers was a rapidly evolving
and growing trend in Europe, North America and parts of
Asia. Hence, in 2017, our Malaysia and Singapore operations
imported the award-winning craft beer Brooklyn from the
United States. In 2021, our Singapore operations launched
Asian craft beer Jing-A, which was well received and saw its
volume almost doubling in 2022. Craft beers in Malaysia are perceived as niche and lacking
in availability due to their super-premium pricing, unlike in
Singapore, where craft beers have gained momentum in
on-trade and e-commerce. This source of new revenue has,
however, failed to take off in a big way due to the pandemic
that took a toll on modern on-trade consumption and stock
management as a result of global supply chain disruptions.
