document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 59, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
These factors
contributed to a market correction
in 2023, which saw market demand
gradually normalise as compared against
the strong rebound we saw in 2022 after
pandemic-related restrictions were lifted. It is important to note that despite the
market correction, our strategy to enable
balanced growth is bearing fruits, with our
performance still above the pre-pandemic
levels of 2019. We are taking bold moves under the
EverGreen strategy. Indeed, we have built
strong momentum across our five key
strategic pillars: emphasising consumer
and customer-centricity as we shape
the future of beer and beyond to drive
superior growth; growing productivity and
a cost conscious culture with an aim to
unlock efficiencies that can be reinvested
to power our growth engine; raising the
bar on sustainability and responsibility
to deliver our net zero ambition; boosting
digitalisation of our processes to
become the best-connected brewer; and
developing our talent and capabilities to
strengthen a culture of high performance. With EverGreen, we are future-proofing
HEINEKEN Malaysia to be a continually
renewing, learning, and growing company
to deliver superior and balanced growth.
[MDA_P004]
The following is a review of our business
and financial performance, the highlights
of our commercial campaigns, the
progress of our sustainability goals, as well
as the outlook for 2024. OUR PERFORMANCE
Compared with our 2022 performance,
Group revenue decreased by 8%, mainly
due to weak consumer sentiment
attributed to growing macroeconomic
concerns. Comparatively, the Group had
a strong base in 2022 following the re-
opening of the economy at the end of
the Covid-19 pandemic. Post the strong
rebound in 2022, the Group views its
2023 performance as a form of market
correction. Group Profit Before Tax declined by 14%
to RM511 million, primarily due to lower
revenue. Comparatively, the Group’s net
profit for the year decreased by 6% due to
the absence of the one-off Prosperity Tax in
the year under review. Corresponding with
the above, earnings per share decreased
from RM1.37 to RM1.28 per share. Net cash from operating activities for
FY2023 increased by 25% to RM584
million attributed to overall favorable
working capital movement. The Group has
improved its capital efficiency through
entering into a factoring arrangement in
FY2023.
[MDA_P005]
Net assets for FY2023 was recorded at
RM459 million, 6% lower versus FY2022
mainly due to decline in Group business
performance during the year. Capital expenditure for FY2023 decreased
by 28% to RM143 million mainly due to
lower spend incurred. The Group recorded
a higher spend in FY2022 driven by
investment in the brewery upgrade which
has been completed in FY2023. The Group paid a total of RM1.3 billion
in excise, custom duties, and sales tax
for the year. For income taxes, the Group
has incurred a total of RM124 million,
translated into an effective tax rate of
24.3%. For FY2023, the Board has declared and
paid a single tier interim dividend of 40 sen
per stock unit on 10 November 2023 and
proposed a single tier final dividend of
88 sen per stock unit. Subject to approval
of the shareholders at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting, the single tier
final dividend will be paid on 25 July 2024
to shareholders registered at the close of
business on 28 June 2024. The dividend
payout ratio for the year is approximately
100%. Revenue
RM2.64
billion
Profit Before Tax
RM511
million
Net Profit
RM387
million
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FOR FY2023
[MDA_P016]
Esg Review
How We Are Governed
Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023
Management Discussion & Analysis
OUR OUTLOOK
With a soft beer market in 2023, we maintain a cautious approach and expect the business environment in 2024 to remain challenging. This alongside the rising cost of living, geopolitical uncertainties, and weakening Ringgit could have a negative impact on consumer
sentiment and spending. We will continue to adopt an agile approach in delivering our 2024 ambition. This year, we will remain
committed to our EverGreen strategy, focusing on delivering superior and balanced growth amidst these dynamic conditions. We
welcome the stance taken by the Government not to increase excise duties on beer in its latest Budget 2024, as any hike in excise rates
will drive greater demand for illicit alcohol. The Group will continue to monitor and support the authorities in addressing this issue
through comprehensive efforts and promoting greater awareness in the market. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I am pleased to welcome Niko van Cauwenberge as our new Supply Chain Director, who replaced Salima Bekoeva who has taken on a
new role in the HEINEKEN APAC regional office.
[MDA_P017]
We also welcome Lukasz Kakol (Luke) as our new Digital & Technology Director, who
replaced Janina Vriesekoop who has moved to HEINEKEN Spain. On behalf of the Group, I extend our sincere appreciation to Salima
and Janina and wish them the best in their next assignments in the HEINEKEN Group. I am confident that we have two capable
successors in Niko and Luke, and I look forward to working with both as a part of HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Management Team. I wish to put on record our gratitude to our shareholders, suppliers, distributors, customers, and consumers for their continued trust and
support for our Company and brands. A special mention must also go to our employees, the One Strong Winning Team of HEINEKEN
Malaysia. Without this team, we would not have been able to achieve such big wins. May we continue to Brew the Joy of True
Togetherness to Inspire a Better World. Thank you. Roland Bala
Managing Director
20 March 2024
DRIVE SUPERIOR
GROWTH
With consumer
centricity, shape
& lead premium
category. Continue
investing behind our
brands. FUND THE
GROWTH
Cost & Value to
drive efficiency,
enabling
reinvestments into
our brands and
business.
