document_id: MDA_0012_3A_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 18, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P003]
This moderation stemmed from various external challenges,
including a slowdown in global trade, the impact of the global tech
downcycle, geopolitical tensions, and the implementation of tighter
monetary policies. In spite of this, the outlook for 2024’s growth according to Bank
Negara Malaysia's Economic and Financial Developments in
Malaysia in the Fourth Quarter of 2023 will be fuelled by resilient
domestic spending and a recovery in external demand. The IMF
anticipates a substantial rebound in global trade growth, rising
from 0.4% in 2023 to 3.3% in 2024. This, coupled with the tech
upswing, increased external demand, and ongoing improvements
in the tourism sector, is poised to bolster Malaysia's exports. On
the domestic side, sustained employment and wage growth will
support household spending, whilst investments will gain momentum
through multi-year projects in both private and public sectors.
[MDA_P005]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
Statista, the market and consumer data provider also reveals that the
global revenue in the food market was forecast to continuously increase
between 2023 and 2028 by in total 3.6 trillion U.S. dollars (+38.46
percent). This market is poised for significant growth, projecting an
annual increase of 6% through the compound annual growth rate
(CAGR) from 2023 to 2028 indicating a favourable trend for 3A. With the
confectionery and snacks segment standing out as the market's largest
segment with an expected market revenue of US$1.77 trillion in 2024,
these global statistics show a positive potential for companies like 3A. In the prevailing economic climate, 3A's trajectory is significantly
influenced by current market dynamics, necessitating a diligent and
adaptable approach in our strategic deliberations. Throughout the fiscal
year 2023, the Group implemented initiatives aimed at enhancing our
business resilience, particularly in response to challenges encountered,
such as geopolitical risks affecting raw material expenses and the
escalation of inflationary pressures.
[MDA_P006]
As we progress forward, 3A remains
committed to navigating these economic conditions prudently, moving
towards a promising future. 2023 Business and Operational Performance
Performance Overview
Turning to business and operational performance, 3A experienced a
decrease of 8.3% in revenue (RM 54.8 million) in FY2023 compared to
the previous fiscal year. This reduction was attributed to lower quantities
of products sold, reflecting the broader economic challenges faced
during this period. The anticipated softening in consumer demand,
influenced by weakened consumer spending and increased competition
from new market entrants, is expected to affect the group accordingly. However, amidst the financial environment, there were positive indicators
wherein the Group's liquidity ratios, including the current ratio, quick
ratio, as well as cash and bank balances, demonstrated improvements. Exports
Singapore emerged as the primary export destination, constituting
10.3% of the total revenue in FY2023 as compared to 9.7% in FY2022. However, overall export revenue experienced a decline, amounting to
approximately RM 5.4 million less than FY2022.
[MDA_P007]
This reduction in export
revenue can be attributed primarily to diminished sales volumes during
FY2023, due to broader industry headwinds and subdued demand
compared to the preceding fiscal year. In response to these challenges,
the Group has remained vigilant, implementing adaptive strategies
to align with market dynamics and navigate industry fluctuations
effectively. We continue to prioritise agility and responsiveness in our
operations to capitalise on emerging opportunities and mitigate risks
in the global export arena. Earnings
The Group’s earnings demonstrated promising growth in FY2023, with
net profit surging by 29% or RM 10.1 million to RM 45.2 million. The
significant increase can be ascribed to several strategic factors. Firstly,
our focus on optimising our sales mix led to an improved average
selling price (ASP), bolstering our bottom line. Additionally, measures
to mitigate raw material costs and stabilise other industry-related
expenses contributed positively to our financial performance.
[MDA_P010]
Strategic initiatives include ongoing plans for plant expansions, upgrades,
and modernisation, demonstrating a focused effort to achieve economies
of scale and operational excellence. Our current business strategy
emphasises operational efficiency, with a particular focus on initiatives
to increase automation and decrease dependence on foreign labour. These measures aim to enhance plant efficiency, drive cost savings,
and ensure long-term sustainability. Marketing and Customer Base Expansion
Focused on expanding market presence and cultivating customer
loyalty, the Group actively participated in exhibitions and trade fairs
to attract new customers and showcase products for both local and
export markets. We strive to foster customer loyalty by sharing hands-
on information on key aspects such as business varieties, food safety,
formulas and batches, regulatory compliance, sales and profitability,
and critical success factors. Maintaining strong customer relationships is essential for long-term
business success. We achieve this by actively listening to our customers’
needs, providing solutions, and continually seeking improvements to
achieve our marketing goals.
