document_id: MDA_5187_HBGLOB_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 11, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Our products are marketed
both under our customers’ brands and our proprietary
brands, including “Geleifu” (Green Food), “Hengbao
Food,” “Qing Long Tan” (Asparagus Tea), and “The
Four Seasons Farm”. Our product portfolio includes over 1,000 items, which
are exported to more than 20 countries, including
Japan, the USA, Singapore, Australia, and Korea. Our
products are accessible to a variety of users, from
hypermarkets and tourist markets to food stalls and
residential homes. At the heart of our operations is the principle of
providing high-quality, affordable food products
with unique flavors. Our commitment to technical
excellence and stringent quality control standards
has solidified our reputation as a premier food
manufacturer. We maintain a comprehensive quality
monitoring and control system, and our facilities are
certified with international standards such as ISO 9001,
ISO 22000, HACCP, FDA, and BRC. The Group believes that maintaining high quality is
crucial for attracting and retaining customers. To
support this belief, we are dedicated to enhancing
the quality of our products, services, and processes,
adopting industry best practices, and ensuring
customer satisfaction.
[MDA_P003]
Recognizing that customer
preferences evolve, we continuously strive to monitor
and refine our offerings to meet their changing needs. By prioritizing quality, the Group aims to fortify its
market position and cultivate enduring relationships
with its customers. Operation Overview
HBGL Group’s revenue had increased by RMB3.9
million or approximately 4.9% from RMB76.1 million in
financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FYE2022”) to
RMB80.0 million in financial year ended 31 December
2023 (“FYE2023”). The increase was mainly due to
increase in sales of China subsidiary as during FYE2023,
there was recovery from disruption in the production
and supply chain due to lockdown in certain areas of
China which have been affected with rising Covid 19
cases. The Group had a decrease in net loss before
taxation to RMB47.9 million in FYE2023 as compared to
RMB171.0 million in FYE2022. Dear Valued Shareholders,
The following MD&A of the operating
performance and financial condition
of the Group for the twelve (12) months
ended 31 December 2023 should be
read in conjunction with the Audited
Financial Statement for the year ended
31 December 2023 and related notes
thereto.
[MDA_P005]
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
HB GLOBAL LIMITED
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
In order to maintain competitiveness in the current
market conditions, it is essential for the Group to
focus on improving its production planning and
implementing rigorous quality control measures on
its manufactured products. The Group is continuously
monitoring and enhancing its production lines to
ensure optimal efficiency. HBGL
expenses
are
classified
into
five
main
components: costs of sales, selling and distribution
expenses, administrative expenses, other expenses,
and finance costs. In the year under review, costs of
sales constituted the largest portion of the Group’s
expenditure, accounting for 54.9% of total expenses. Given the potential risks posed by currency fluctuations
and changing consumer behavior, HBGL has put in
place effective contingency plans to mitigate such
risks. To minimize costs, management has implemented
a tight control operating model, while also leveraging
technology to enhance operational efficiency.
[MDA_P006]
Financial Review
In the FYE2023, the Group’s revenue slightly increase
by RMB 3.9 million or approximately 4.9% compared
to the previous financial year, mainly attributable to
increase sales by the China subsidiary. This shows the
recovery from disruptions in the production and supply
chain caused by lockdowns in certain areas of China
that were affected by the rising number of Covid-19
cases. In addition, other income in FYE 2023 amounted
to RMB7.9 million, which was considerably lower than
the RMB14.1 million recorded in FYE 2022. Furthermore, the Group’s other operating expenses
decreased from RMB137.3 million to RMB28.5 million,
mainly due to higher impairment loss provided on
property, plant and equipment and write off of
intangible assets and prepayments of land use rights
in FYE 2022. As a result, the Group incurred a net
loss before taxation of RMB45.8 million in FYE 2023
compared to RMB167.7 million in FYE 2022, mainly due
to significantly lower other operating expenses in FYE
2023. Financial Position
As of December 31, 2023, the Company’s net assets
amounted to approximately RMB162.4 million.
[MDA_P007]
The
decrease was mainly due to total comprehensive
loss incurred amounted to RMB47.9 million in FYE 2023. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
decreased by about RMB25.5 million and RMB7.7
million mainly due to impairment loss provided,
depreciation and amortization in FYE 2023. Decrease
in trade and other receivables from RMB22.3 million
to RMB13.4 million was mainly due to better average
collection period from trade receivables. To preserve its financial stability and enhance
competitiveness,
the
Group
is
committed
to
implementing robust cash flow management and
improving revenue generation strategies to ensure a
positive cash balance. Additionally, a key focus will
be placed on reducing costs through several strategic
initiatives. These
include
optimizing
operational
efficiency, increasing production capacity, and
streamlining supply chain management processes. By adopting these measures, the Group will be able
to allocate resources more effectively, thereby
maintaining financial health amidst the challenging
market conditions. These strategies are critical to our
ongoing efforts to ensure sustainable growth and
continued success in the industry.
