document_id: MDA_0212_SDS_2021
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 37, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Dear valued shareholders, it is with great pleasure that we present to you the Annual
Report and Audited Financial Statements of SDS Group Berhad (“SDS Group” or
the “Group”) for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 (“FY2021”). OVERVIEW OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS
Business Venture and Journey
SDS Group has embarked on its business as a manufacturer and retailer of bakery products in 1984. SDS
Group continues to develop varieties of new creative products to build customers’ excitement and interest in
its products in the market till today. The Group strives to enrich and satisfy customers’ needs and preferences
through its high-quality products at a reasonable price. It was an astonishing achievement and business journey for SDS Group as it started its home-grown
business in Johor region with three subsidiary brands namely, retail brand, ‘SDS’, and wholesale brands,
‘Top Baker’ and ‘Daily’s’. Throughout the years, SDS Group has grown rapidly through business expansion
of its manufacturing and distribution facilities, and retail outlets in the Food and Beverages (F&B) industry.
[MDA_P004]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
OUR STRATEGIES FOR MARKET
AND PRODUCT
Retail Channel
The Group has taken proactive steps and
actions through various forms of initiatives
and strategies to create sustainable
growth and long-term shareholders’ value
in its business. After months of lockdown as a result of
the COVID-19 outbreak, consumers’
preferences and behaviours have changed
to adapt to the new way of living during
this pandemic. With working-from-
home arrangement becoming a norm
and stay-at-home becoming a new
trend, there is an increased spending
for online food delivery services. As
such, the Group has collaborated with
more external established food delivery
service providers to continue bringing
its products to customers despite the
restriction in movement. The Group
has also established its own ordering
hotline services to facilitate pre-ordering,
collection at its outlets or delivery services. During the financial year, the Group has
begun selling its festive products in third-
party online platforms noting a shift of
focus to online ordering and purchases
among consumers.
[MDA_P005]
With the rising trend of contactless
payment to reduce the risk of transmission
of COVID-19 through physical interaction,
the Group has enhanced its very own
SDS mobile application to include
E-wallet feature. This E-wallet feature
allows consumers to complete their
transactions using contactless payments
at any of its outlets. The Group continues
to offer innovative solutions to provide
greater consumer convenience and
addressing the ever-changing consumers’
preferences. The Group has expanded its business
operations beyond Johor Bahru to the
Central Region of Peninsula Malaysia
during the financial year. Despite the
COVID-19 pandemic, the Group continues
to explore opportunities for growth and
has successfully set up two new outlets
at Nilai, Negeri Sembilan and Bangi,
Selangor. Wholesale Channel
The Group has launched a series of new
products such as banana slice cakes,
pandan chiffon cake and danish bread
with chocolate chips during the financial
year.
[MDA_P006]
RM2 concept stores has been
gaining prominence and popularity from
consumers in Malaysia in recent years,
this is especially so during the pandemic
period when the current economic outlook
is uncertain and consumers are more
conscious in their spending. The Group
has collaborated with these chain stores
and developed a range of products which
are sold in their stores. The Group further penetrated the market
in the Northern Region by establishing a
new distribution centre at Sungai Petani,
Kedah. With this expansion, the Group
wholesale distribution network is covering
10 states out of the 11 states in Peninsula
Malaysia. The Group aims to continue
its effort to expand its product range
and distribution network geographically,
enabling it to reach out for a wider
consumer base. ANNUAL REPORT 2021
[MDA_P009]
RM’000
RM’000
(%)
Revenue
173,778
191,520
-9.3
Gross Profit
52,988
57,193
-7.4
Gross Profit Margin
30.5%
29.9%
2.0
Profit before tax
9,589
4,998
91.9
Profit after tax
7,078
4,212
68.0
Net profit margin
4.1%
2.2%
86.4
Earnings per share (Sen)
1.79
1.16
54.3
Revenue
The Group’s revenue has decreased from
RM191.5 million in FY2020 to RM173.8
million in FY2021, representing a decrease
of RM17.7 million or 9.3% as compared to
the previous financial year. The decrease
in revenue was mainly due to the various
measures implemented by the Malaysian
Government in view of the COVID-19
pandemic, which includes the Movement
Control Order (“MCO”), school closure,
restriction of dine-in at restaurants and
limitation on the maximum number of dine-
in customers. With the lower consumers’
traffic due to the various phases of MCO
implemented, the Group had experienced
a decrease in demand for our products. Gross Profit Margin (“GPM”)
GPM had improved from 29.9% to 30.5%
as compared to the previous financial year. This was mainly due to effective cost
management measures implemented as
well as the reduction of goods returned
rate as a result of better sales planning.
[MDA_P011]
Profit Before Tax (“PBT”)
PBT has increased by RM4.6 million or
91.9% from RM5.0 million in FY2020 to
RM9.6 million in FY2021. Despite the
decrease in revenue and gross profit,
the increase in PBT was caused by a
one-off non-recurring listing expenses
of 2.1 million incurred in the previous
financial year, various labour cost control
measures implemented during the year,
and decreased in fuel expenses as a result
of the decrease in fuel prices during the
financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
[MDA_P019]
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year
