document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2023
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": false}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 8, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“In the face of global headwinds and
uncertainties, Nestlé Malaysia demonstrated
continued resilience in 2023, always guided
by our commitment to fulfil the diverse
expectations of Malaysians and reinforce our
trusted position as the Good food, Good life
Company, that is leading the industry transition
in Malaysia towards a greener future.”
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year 2023 witnessed an economically volatile landscape,
marked by persistent inflationary pressures, heightened
commodity prices and unfavourable exchange rates, as well
as geopolitical tensions, aggravated by the conflicts and
humanitarian crises. Against this background, Nestlé Malaysia
delivered another year of resilient results and progress at
multiple levels. Business growth was primarily driven by local
sales which grew by 9.9%, contributing to a higher turnover of
RM7.1 billion in 2023. As in prior years, this was the result of
our holistic strategy, including robust commercial planning and
execution, successful innovations across brands, and a constant
search for efficiencies to generate the funds needed to continue
investing in our brands.
[MDA_P002]
Supporting this was a strategic array of initiatives, including
targeted campaigns that spanned both traditional offline
channels and digital platforms. Our product innovation and
renovation initiatives further strengthened our portfolio, aligning
it with the evolving preferences of our diverse set of consumers. Additionally, our commitment to continuous operational efficiency
improvements enabled us to optimise resources and drive cost-
effectiveness throughout our value chain. We also intensified
our ESG agenda, attaining solid progress in key sustainability
programmes during the year, guided by our CSV approach. All
efforts combined, we were able to deliver another year of solid top
line growth, resilient profitability and healthy dividends. Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
[MDA_P003]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Nestlé Malaysia’s sustained performance builds on the solid foundation established through our
112-year legacy in the country. On this base, we strive to achieve excellence across all facets
of our operations. Our dedicated teams, spanning across our businesses, manufacturing, sales
and operational functions, work in effective alignment and coordination to propel our Company
forward. Through their relentless efforts, we have maintained our position as the leading FMCG
company in Malaysia. Driving Sustainable Growth Momentum
Our manufacturing facilities, coupled with a robust nationwide logistics network, have ensured
a seamless and consistent supply of our locally-produced high-quality products to meet the
evolving demands of consumers. Complementing this is our extensive and highly experienced and
committed commercial organisation, which has continued to protect and expand the presence
of our core brands through impactful engagement and strategic demand generation campaigns.
[MDA_P004]
In 2023, we maintained a sharp focus on amplifying consumer excitement and enhancing
accessibility for new products, while scaling up the reach of our market-leading brands to ensure
that they remain top-of-mind for consumers. The introduction of innovative offerings in tandem
with the continued nurturing of our brands has been instrumental in sustaining the relevance of
our portfolio and supporting sales momentum across categories. Innovation Fuelled by Consumer Insights
By immersing ourselves in the nuanced needs and evolving tastes of our consumers, we can
unlock valuable insights that inspire and inform our product development efforts. These insights
fuel the continuous product innovation that allows our much-loved brands to maintain a strong
presence and relevance in the lives of Malaysians. Recognising emerging trends towards healthier and more sustainable options, we proactively
expanded our plant-based offerings in 2023. To our HARVEST GOURMET plant-based meals
range as well as our range of Dairy Free drinks under the MILO and NESCAFÉ brands, we have
now added our new NESTLÉ GOODNES brand, providing an even broader range of delicious and
nutritious plant-based choices.
[MDA_P005]
Our commitment to promoting healthier lifestyles was further reflected in our 41 products certified
with the Ministry of Health’s Healthier Choice Logo (HCL), which remains the largest portfolio of
HCL options in the nation, demonstrating our dedication to offering products that support the
wellbeing of Malaysians. A green wave of enthusiastic participants swept over MBD 2023, as 60,000 participants gathered at
Dataran Wawasan Putrajaya, united by a common goal of prioritising their health and fitness. We also remained attuned to consumer demand for indulgent and premium offerings, with several
key product innovations that created great interest among consumers. Nestlé MILO Kaw Ice
Cream, KIT KAT Pink Ice Cream, and the limited edition KIT KAT Salted Caramel Cookies created
moments of delight. Additionally, we introduced new innovations that catered specifically to local
taste preferences, such as MAGGI Curry Cube, MAGGI Mi Goreng Laksa Warisan, and MAGGI
Pedas Giler Cheezy Berapi, further solidifying our connection with the diverse culinary preferences
of Malaysians, as well as other multiple innovations across the rest of our portfolio.
