document_id: MDA_5102_GCB_2022
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 67, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
MARKET OVERVIEW
Despite global concerns about the economic
impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the
global demand for chocolate remained
strong, as demonstrated by the increase in
grinding worldwide. According to regional
cocoa associations, total grinding in FY2022
rose to 3.5 million MT from 3.4 million MT in
the previous year. The reopening of global borders, increased air travel,
and tourism also contributed to the growth in chocolate
consumption in FY2022. The chocolate market is expected
to continue its growth trend, with Euromonitor International
forecasting it to reach a global retail sales value of $128
billion by the end of 2023, with a cumulative average
growth rate of 1.9% in volume over the next three years to
2025. There are, however, various macroeconomic factors that
created a challenging market environment for GCB in
2022. The European and UK region has experienced rising
energy costs, which caused by the energy crisis as a result
of Russia-Ukraine conflict. Global inflationary pressure have been causing interest
rate hike. The company foresees that interest rates may
continue to rise due to the uncertain economic outlook.
[MDA_P002]
Simultaneously, the gloomy global outlook may weigh on
discretionary spending as high household debt-servicing
costs restrict the disposable income of customers. Moreover, the expected economic recession poses other
significant challenges. The combination of inflation, higher
interest rates, and rising commodity prices is likely to result
in a slowdown of the global economy. While chocolate is considered a recession-resistant industry
as people tend to indulge in small affordable luxuries while
cutting back on other spending, demand will ultimately
still depend on the overall economic environment and
the extent of broader cost-of-living pressures such as
increasing food prices and housing costs. GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
Strategic Review
[MDA_P003]
Management Discussion & Analysis
GUAN CHONG BERHAD
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Integrated Annual Report 2022
OUTLOOK
While the Group cannot control external factors, we
will strive to navigate through the headwinds to ensure
that our operations remain focused on seizing business
opportunities, meeting customer demand, and generating
sustainable profits to support our growth objectives. Côte d'Ivoire presence brings us ‘close to source’ and
‘close to market’
GCB's expansion into Côte d'Ivoire, the world's largest
cocoa bean supplying country, has brought us closer to
the source of cocoa beans and enables us to implement
sustainability projects commencing from the procurement
of cocoa beans. This expansion into a strategic location
will improved our cost-effectiveness in reaching out to
key chocolate-consuming countries in Europe and the UK,
where most of our customers are based. The new facility in
Côte d'Ivoire will be a boost for the Group's earnings and
will catapult our strength as a global player in the chocolate
supply chain.
[MDA_P005]
Our utilization of
internally produced cocoa-derived food ingredients to
produce industrial chocolate at our Germany production
facility has enabled us to form a complete internal supply
chain and benefit from cost efficiencies. We can now also
leverage upon our presence and production facility in
Europe to begin marking our products as "Made in Europe",
which will boost our ability to penetrate new markets with
high demand for European chocolate in future. Taken together, the abovementioned strategies enable us
to not only meet our key customers' requirements but has
also empowered us to cohesively address their expectations
on four primary fronts, namely building a global supply
chain presence, enhancing cost-effectiveness, increasing
ESG considerations, and adopting greater sustainability
practices. Ready to combat the challenges of recession and rising
costs
High interest rates and inflation are impacting household
spending power. While we anticipate a stable demand
for cocoa and chocolate products in the short term, we
are braced for a challenging year ahead due to potential
recession risks in major global economies.
[MDA_P006]
Although
chocolate is a relatively recession-resistant product, a
decrease in consumer purchasing power might impact
demand. To this end, we will continue to rely on our strong
fundamental strategies to equip ourselves for future
challenges. Our emphasis will remain on key operational
objectives, which include maintaining high utilization of
our cocoa grinding facility, optimizing our cost efficiency,
adapting and responding agilely towards changes in
the cocoa business, integrating forward thinking in our
strategic planning as well as conducting business ethically
and responsibly. We will proactively monitor and manage our operating costs
and potential risks in order to maintain our competitiveness
and develop greater stability and efficiency within our supply
chain, which will be imperative in weathering uncertain
global economic conditions. With these fundamentals in
place, we can focus on our three core growth strategies of
expansion, sustainability and innovation to fully capitalise
on enhanced cost efficiencies and capture a greater share
of the global cocoa-derived ingredients and chocolate
market. Strategic Review
