document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2023
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 43, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Managing director’s review
Managing director’s review
NAVIGATING THE YEAR AND BEYOND
PPB Group Berhad remained resilient and committed
to sustainable growth to navigate the challenging year. As a conglomerate engaged in diverse business activities,
we leveraged on the talents and capabilities within the Group
to drive business momentum despite market uncertainties. Moving forward, we will continue to align our efforts with our
corporate mission and vision to steer the Group towards
sustained growth and success. We will explore opportunities
beyond the norm to improve performance and enhance
operational efficiency. Dear Shareholders,
In
2023,
Malaysia
achieved
economic
growth of 3.7% amidst a challenging
global
landscape
marked
by
weak
demand. Domestic trade contracted by
7.3% while the manufacturing sector saw
modest growth of 0.8%. A slowing down of
domestic consumer spending was notable,
driven by concerns over the escalating
cost of living. Local businesses faced
major headwinds, including heightened
competition, disruptions in the supply
chain, rising costs and labour shortages in
certain sectors.
[MDA_P002]
Nevertheless, amid these economic and
business challenges, the Group delivered
satisfactory performance in FY2023. Group
revenue for FY2023 decreased to RM5.72
billion (FY2022: RM6.26 billion) primarily
due to a strategic decision to divest our
Indonesia flour business. Although our
pre-tax profit declined to RM1.49 billion in
FY2023 (FY2022: RM2.25 billion) due to
the lower contribution from our 18.8%
associate, Wilmar International Limited
(“Wilmar”), the Group’s core business
segments witnessed an overall improvement
in profit before tax. GRAINS & AGRIBUSINESS SEGMENT
The Grains & Agribusiness segment is the major contributor
to the Group’s revenue. In FY2023, it contributed 75% of
the Group’s revenue and 15% of its profit. This segment
comprises flour milling, animal feed manufacturing and
livestock farming. FFM Berhad (“FFM”), an 80% subsidiary of PPB, owns and
operates seven flour mills of which five are located in Malaysia
and two in Vietnam. In Thailand, the Group operates a 670
mt/ day flour mill through its 43.4% associate, Kerry Flour Mills
Limited. In China, FFM has 20% interest in eight associates
which have a combined flour milling capacity of 18,950 mt/ day.
[MDA_P004]
In FY2024, FFM is set to acquire a 3.92-acre industrial land
in Johor to enhance our warehousing facility and distribution
efficiency. Looking ahead to 2024, we plan to strengthen the market
position of our core brands. We will continue our trajectory
of market expansion to grow our institutional bulk clientele,
strengthening market share while capitalising on new market
opportunities. We remain cognisant of market volatility in
terms of wheat pricing, supply chain disruptions, freight rates,
currency exchange rates as well as the very competitive
market. Our business strategies are carefully devised and
closely monitored to mitigate these risk factors and to
remain resilient in the face of market dynamics. Animal Feed Manufacturing
The Animal Feed Manufacturing division operates under
increasingly intense market and price competition compounded
by industry consolidation, integration of market players and
contraction of customer base resulting from high-volume
customers switching to home or toll mixing. There are also
the added challenges of potential disease outbreaks, labour
shortage, fluctuating costs, and quality of raw materials.
[MDA_P006]
Livestock Farming
In FY2023, prices of day-old chicks as well as table eggs
reached unprecedented highs mainly due to supply chain
disruptions and workforce shortages. The landscape of the livestock farming industry has changed
over the past decade with the exit of small and medium-scale
industry players due to operational, investment and manpower
challenges. This trend has created opportunities for the rapid
expansion and effective business consolidation of major
market players. In anticipation of a challenging 2024, the division will focus
on optimising production costs, improving volume efficiency,
promoting sustainable farming practices and strengthening
biosecurity measures. CONSUMER PRODUCTS SEGMENT
This segment comprises the Group’s businesses in consumer
products distribution, bakery and food processing. Revenue for the Consumer Products segment increased by
1.0% to record RM761 million. This segment contributed 13%
to Group revenue, making it the second-highest contributor. Profit for FY2023 was lower by 23% compared to the previous
year, impacted mainly by higher trade promotions and
operating costs.
[MDA_P008]
The facility has a production
capacity comprising two bread lines with capacities of
10,000 loaves and 6,000 loaves-per-hour respectively;
a 24,000 rolls-per-hour line; a 15,000 cake-per-hour line;
and a 6,000 buns-per-hour line. Overall, the bread industry remains stable while greater
competition is experienced in the rolls and cakes market with
a wide array of variants available to consumers, especially for
out-of-home consumption. During the year, TIB focused efforts on ramping up our
production to pre-Covid-19 capacities and continued to expand
our distribution and customer base. New products were also
rolled out to extend our range of product flavours. In a post-pandemic environment, demand for industrial
bakery products may dip as customers are presented with
greater choice and product selection in resuming their regular
shopping activities. Intensified competition is expected with the emergence of
new players in the market while current players vie for market
share in a matured and saturated market. Operational and labour costs make up a large portion of our
expenditure and the year ahead will also see an increase
in machinery and labour costs.
