document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2022
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 13, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year shaped up to be one of solid recovery post-COVID lockdowns,
amidst global volatile conditions and commodities inflation. We sharpened
our focus to keep upholding the trust placed in us by Malaysians and meet
their expectations for taste, quality and nutrition, while continuing to invest
in our brands to keep our bonds with the Rakyat strong, contemporary
and relevant. At the same time, we worked hard to identify savings and
efficiencies that helped us to cushion the impact of higher commodity costs,
moderating the quantum of the unavoidable price increases. Simultaneously,
we further stepped up our ESG agenda, with another year of solid progress
in our sustainability targets. With this determined approach, our sales reached its highest growth in
many years, to RM6.7 billion. This was contributed both by domestic and
export sales, which rose by 12.9% and 29.3% respectively.
[MDA_P002]
Key contributors
were the core F&B business as in-home consumption remained resilient,
coupled with a significant turnaround in the OOH business due to the lifting
of pandemic restrictions which led to increased mobility and a resurgence
in OOH consumption. The stronger sales coupled with prudent cost
optimisation initiatives and reduced COVID-19 expenses helped to cushion
higher commodity prices, unfavourable exchange rates and the bottom-line
impact of the Prosperity Tax. Ultimately, we delivered a higher profit after tax
of RM620.3 million, up by 8.9% from the previous financial year, while profit
before tax grew by 14.3% to RM859.5 million. Nestlé Malaysia stayed the course in 2022. We
maintained our positive trajectory and put all efforts to
continue delivering healthy, nutritious and great-tasting
products tailored to meet consumers’ expectations,
well-supported by demand generation activities and
constant search for operational excellence.”
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
[MDA_P003]
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Marking our 110th year in Malaysia, we continued to build on our well-established foundations
and the commitment and dedication of our teams across all functions, businesses, sales and
operations. Through their efforts we continued to retain our position as a strong leader in the F&B
industry and the largest FMCG in Malaysia. Our manufacturing, supply chain and distribution
operations ensured a steady stream of high-quality products that met consumer demand. Highest Growth in Decades, Record Sales
Exiting from the unprecedented conditions triggered by the pandemic and the related lockdowns,
we have seen the strongest sales acceleration in many years, building on the three pillars of
solid in-home consumption, rebound of OOH channels and acceleration of exports. Our leading
positions across the categories where we are present in combination with the work of our brand
teams, and the solid planning and execution by our sales teams and operations put us again in
the right position to capture all opportunities.
[MDA_P005]
Encouraging Malaysians to embrace plant-based products through our HARVEST GOURMET range. Providing Malaysians with more nutritional options under the brands they love was also an
important priority, with the launch of the MAGGI Nutri-licious noodles range (meeting Healthier
Choice Logo (HCL) requirements), the acceleration of MILO Hi-Fibre and the introduction of
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Dark Choc in powder formats, as well as NUTREN GlucoSmart, a specialised
nutrition product from NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE. We also took the Government’s announcement
of a sugar tax implementation as an opportunity to reformulate our recipe for our NESCAFÉ 3-in-1
product with less added sugar and saturated fat, leveraging our R&D expertise to rapidly bring a
new range to the market within only 100 days, with great consumer acceptance. MAGGI promoter enlightening consumer on our MAGGI 2-Minute Noodles product at a roadshow in East
Malaysia.
[MDA_P007]
MAGGI continued to empower women through our Wanita Cukup Berani
campaign while building proudly on the nation’s culinary heritage through MAGGI SAH Malaysia. During Ramadan, KIT KAT donated part of its sales revenue to charities supporting the needy and
NESCAFÉ proudly advanced our NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme as part of our vision to
support farmers and put Malaysia back on the global coffee map. Malaysians cheering for our MILO truck at the National Merdeka Parade 2022. Iman, our Nestlé Cares volunteer alongside our a representative of our NGO partner, Empire Project helping
to pack wholesome products to be donated to B40 communities in conjunction with Ramadan. Scan me
Doing Well While Doing Good: Advancing Our ESG Agenda
For years, our CSV programmes have built on the idea that we can generate solid financial returns
while contributing positively to society in many fronts.
[MDA_P010]
Our ESG progress through the year is well-detailed in our
Nestlé in Society Report 2022. Management Discussion and Analysis
Building ‘A Fit for Purpose’ Organisation to Win in The 21st Century
With the end of the lockdowns and the normalisation post-pandemic, we have
been able to return to more “normal” ways of working, with some clearly emerging
trends. On the one hand, the very strong need to re-engage and re-connect with
colleagues and teams as well as the expectation to find purpose and meaning in
one’s activity; on the other hand, the clear demand to improve work-life balance
and increased flexibility and more “freedom within framework”. In the later part of
2022, an internal survey confirmed these trends as well as the demand for more
agile processes, less bureaucracy and more communication and visibility on
career development. On the basis of this feedback, we are working to address a
number of these expectations, with some positive early feedback as we advance
through the process. Diversity and Inclusion remain very high in our priorities.
