document_id: MDA_7216_KAWAN_2020
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 37, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
(cont’d)
The Food and Beverage (“F&B”) industry in which we operate experienced unprecedented supply and demand
volatility in FY2020. Movement restrictions impacted supply chain and operational efficiencies industry-wide, resulting
in growth of frozen food sales at grocers and retailers while, foodservice outlets experienced a dramatic reduction in
customer footfall for much of the year. Changes in customers’ purchasing and consumption behaviour are summarised
below:
F&B
Market Trends
and Consumer
Behaviour
Shift in food consumption behaviour from eating out to dining in
due to movement strictions and safety concerns
Rise of online shopping and food delivery services as shoppers
prioritised safety and convenience
Demand for home cooking and frozen products soared in place
of dining out
Consumers preferred convenient and healthier food options
Mainstream groceries and retailers gained market share from
the drop in food service demand
Despite facing a succession of challenges, our team rose to the occasion.
[MDA_P003]
With staff
strength numbering 660, we produce a range of food products including paratha, spring roll, pastry, frozen vegetable,
chapati, finger food, bakery and desserts that are sold under five brands:
Our products are exported to 37 territories and counting, utilising a range of distribution channels such as distributorship,
direct sales to key account customers, e-Commerce, and sales to retailers and wholesalers. Strategic Response
Given our reputation as a frozen food manufacturer, the pandemic-driven market trends worked in our favour as our
product ranges primarily service the home-dining segment, providing convenient, easy-to-prepare food products and
frozen-ready-meals for ease of consumption. The trend towards convenient and healthier food options is also aligned
with the Group’s growth strategy, while the e-Commerce collaborations established in previous years have prepared
us to meet the surge in digital sales. Our products are also widely available at grocers, retailers and convenience
stores where consumers are diverting their spending in place of foodservice.
[MDA_P005]
Our leadership team streamlined our production and product ranges in order to protect margins while maintaining
supply and availability. As the conditions began to progressively stabilise, we quickly rebuilt the mix elements of our
product ranges to continue to broaden our consumer choices. We leveraged on our insights in consumer behaviour
patterns in decision making. We activated our business continuity management processes in the early days of the pandemic, allowing non-
essential personnel to work off-site and utilised a range of traditional and digital channels of communication to
maintain operational efficiency. Pandemic prevention measures were put in place at our manufacturing facilities to
ensure that production can continue safely, while we leveraged the strong supply chain partnerships we built over the
years to ensure a steady supply of raw materials throughout the outbreak. This allowed us to sustain our production
and minimise supply disruption to our customers, who appreciated the high level of service provided during this
challenging period, and our ability to deliver orders on time.
[MDA_P007]
We also provided crisis management training to our managers to help them work through the crisis while navigating
the roller coaster of emotions experienced by staff amid heightened fear and uncertainty. These efforts underpin our commitment to the physical and mental wellbeing of our employees. Leading with passion
and compassion, we will continue to make every effort to keep abreast with the latest COVID-19 developments to
minimise its impact on our employees and our operations.
[MDA_P009]
Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) System
In early FY2020, Kawan rolled out a new ERP system at our Malaysian base to help us better coordinate production,
resources, procurement, inventory, orders, invoicing and payments with greater efficiency. The data analytics provided
by the new ERP system helped us to better navigate the challenges of the pandemic, providing timely and relevant data
to ensure Kawan’s smooth operations even when managers could not be on the premises due to COVID-19 restrictions. With the proven success of the new ERP system, it was subsequently implemented at our subsidiary in China in
December 2020 to further strengthen the Group’s operational efficiency. The integration of these business processes into
one cloud-based system will make the Group more agile in processing information for more effective decision making. Food Safety & Health
Food safety continues to be a priority for us and throughout FY2020, we continued to deliver quality food despite the
disruptions.
[MDA_P010]
Cognisant of the growing expectations of higher food safety levels, we had strengthened our food safety management
standards and processes with more stringent hygiene measures and guideline adherence to ensure we safeguard the
health of our consumers. We are happy to report that in the year under review, Kawan continued to meet the high standards of international
food handling best practices. Our facilities have successfully maintained our Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(“HACCP”) MS1480:2019 Certificate, HALAL authentication certificate from JAKIM Malaysia, as well as the Good
Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”) certificate in FY2020, signalling our compliance with all relevant food safety, quality
and operational requirements for food manufacturers. We are also proud to have obtained a Grade A certification from British Retailer Consortium (“BRC”) Global Standard
for Food Safety (Issue 8) for our sites in FY2020, which is a step up from our FY2019 achievement. These recognitions are critical to our ability to continue operating in the food manufacturing sector, serving as a sign
of confidence in our products that consumers can trust.
