document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": false}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 8, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“In the face of global headwinds and
uncertainties, Nestlé Malaysia demonstrated
continued resilience in 2023, always guided
by our commitment to fulfil the diverse
expectations of Malaysians and reinforce our
trusted position as the Good food, Good life
Company, that is leading the industry transition
in Malaysia towards a greener future.”
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year 2023 witnessed an economically volatile landscape,
marked by persistent inflationary pressures, heightened
commodity prices and unfavourable exchange rates, as well
as geopolitical tensions, aggravated by the conflicts and
humanitarian crises. Against this background, Nestlé Malaysia
delivered another year of resilient results and progress at
multiple levels. Business growth was primarily driven by local
sales which grew by 9.9%, contributing to a higher turnover of
RM7.1 billion in 2023. As in prior years, this was the result of
our holistic strategy, including robust commercial planning and
execution, successful innovations across brands, and a constant
search for efficiencies to generate the funds needed to continue
investing in our brands.
[MDA_P006]
Annual Review
Management Discussion and Analysis
Deepening Our Bond with Malaysians
We cherish our long-standing bonds with Malaysians through a relentless focus on delivering
high-quality Halal products that meet consumer needs. Upholding this strong promise of quality
and trust, our brands continue to remain relevant through brand activations and meaningful
community engagements spanning decades. During the year, we continued to make a positive
impact on local communities through multiple programmes aimed at uplifting lives. This included MILO Malaysia Breakfast Day (MBD), the nation’s largest breakfast event which
made a triumphant return in 2023, the first time since the pandemic. Promoting active lifestyles
and nutritious breakfasts, MBD was held in Putrajaya, Sabah, and Sarawak, attracting over 60,000
participants. The event featured activities that highlighted the value of sports as a great teacher,
alongside fostering a sense of community and camaraderie. MAGGI’s “Wanita Cukup Berani” mentorship programme continued to encourage women to step
beyond their comfort zones to improve their livelihoods.
[MDA_P007]
We teamed up again with Google, Meta
and TikTok in 2023 for the Resipi Berani MAGGI series, where women took on culinary challenges
with the opportunity to win RM5,000 in start-up funds. Through expert guidance, they honed their
skills in food preparation, content creation and monetising platforms like TikTok, equipping them
with tools to unlock new possibilities. Strengthening our collaboration with Majlis Bandaraya Shah Alam and KPT Recycle to make recycling
accessible for more households, further powered by digitalisation with the launch of the 3R Family App. We also launched the “Air Tangan Kita, Citarasa Malaysia” campaign to celebrate the love
Malaysians have for MAGGI. The campaign highlighted how Malaysians have made MAGGI their
own, adding their personal touch to MAGGI dishes and making them an integral part of local
culinary traditions. With a 100% Malaysian workforce producing MAGGI since 1969, the campaign
portrayed MAGGI as a beloved household brand. Leading the Industry Transition into a Sustainable Future
We continue to spearhead ESG priorities that create a positive, lasting impact on communities
and the environment.
[MDA_P008]
Our efforts are guided by a holistic vision to be a force for good globally,
a comprehensive action covering all relevant SDGs, with particular focus on delivering on our
sustainability commitments. Through our Project RELeaf reforestation programme, we planted more than 1.5 million trees
during the year and are on track to reach our target of 3 million trees planted by 2025. This initiative
is a testament to our dedication to restoring and preserving Malaysia’s natural ecosystems, as
we work towards mitigating the effects of climate change and promoting the conservation of
biodiversity. Visitors enjoying freshly made MAGGI Mi Goreng Cili Kampung from our sampling truck at the Malaysia
International Halal Showcase.
