document_id: MDA_3026_DLADY_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 70, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Our priority during the year
was on implementation of
our strategic priorities, while
operating with resilience”
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
DLMI is committed to strong corporate governance, robust
risk management practices, and a conducive culture,
enabling us to operate a profitable and sustainable business
over the long run. As Chairperson, I am dedicated to
upholding sound principles of governance and an efficient
Board. Our responsibilities include driving difficult
conversations to help prudent business and people
decisions, maintaining transparent communication with
stakeholders, and ensuring timely information flow. We
consistently review and update policies, with a particular
focus on enhancing practices related to risk management. In 2023, we enhanced our Compass Toolkits to include
Cybersecurity policies for our production location as well
as the policy on ‘Doing Honest Business’’ which safeguards
us against the risks of corruption. We also documented
and secured Board approval for Sustainability Policy and
Guidelines (for roll-out in early 2024), which is focused on
DLMI’s local approach to managing economic, environmental,
social, and governance (EES&G) priorities.
[MDA_P004]
Meanwhile, sustainability KPIs are part of
Managing Director and Management Team’s annual targets. Our three-year journey towards transition and adoption of
Integrated Reporting principles, which commenced from
the reporting cycle of 2022, is currently ongoing. The
intent is to take a more interconnected approach to
reporting performance. This means, we are committed to a
four-year journey starting 2024 to align with the Taskforce
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in line
with Bursa’s sustainability reporting requirements and the
new IFRS S1 and S2. SHAREHOLDER AND STAKEHOLDER VALUE
DLMI strives to maximise value for both shareholders and
stakeholders through a dedicated and balanced approach
to risk and performance. Our emphasis is also on
engagement and fostering valuable relationships with our
employees, consumers, suppliers, industry and the
government. Shareholders: We remain committed to delivering shareholder
returns and to creating value for all stakeholders. On the back
of a 7.7% revenue growth, DLMI generated an adjusted
operating profit of RM159.1 million (excluding accelerated
depreciation and one-offs).
[MDA_P010]
The
scope of MoC includes the exchanging and sharing of
resources, facilities, data, knowledge, and skills to further
mutual interest and agenda; and increasing knowledge and
skills of local dairy farmers through a flagship programme. Our bespoke Farmer2Farmer programme, for one, aims at
improving the quality and quantity of raw milk of dairy cows
by equipping farmers with sustainable farming practices. 2024 OUTLOOK & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The 2024 economic outlook is mixed, marked by slower
growth, monetary policy impacts, and concerns about
inflation and geopolitical tensions. Against this backdrop,
Malaysia’s milk market is projected to experience robust
growth, with an anticipated expansion of +5.1% in 2024. As
we transition to our new manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek,
which will be fully operational within 2024, we remain positive
and confident of our ability to meet the growing nutritional
dairy needs of Malaysians. Meanwhile, on behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to
express our sincere appreciation to the Management Team,
employees and business partners for their demonstrated
resilience and strong support throughout FY2023.
[MDA_P012]
Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders,
MANAGING
DIRECTOR’S
R e p o r t
60 YEARS OF BUILDING TRUST
& DAIRY LEADERSHIP
2023 marked our 60 years of strong dairy
leadership in Malaysia. For generations, we have
delivered our promise of quality, healthy, Halal,
accessible and affordable nutrition. Over the
years, we earned the trust of our consumers,
customers, regulators as well as the government. We partnered with them to shape the dairy
industry landscape in the country and we
continue to support the national agenda of
developing Malaysia’s capacity and capability in
sustainable dairy. I take great pride in my association with
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI),
which I see as a Malaysian company, with
international roots; committed to local
nutritional needs through global nutritional
standards; working to create local impact
through cross-market best practices and
global sustainable development goals. STAYING STRONG TO
EXTERNAL HEADWINDS
Market recovery in the post-COVID era, even
in 2023, has been uneven. Exasperated
by the turmoil in the global markets due to
geo-political tensions, war and social chaos,
markets were plagued by uncertainty.
[MDA_P013]
This
includes the highly volatile monetary regime in
Europe and other parts of the world while
foreign exchange exposure remained high,
which affected the costs of sourcing dairy raw
materials. This in turn meant higher consumer
prices and reduced margins. Growing emphasis
on ESG integration efforts, especially from
critical shareholders, regulators and investors,
put additional pressure on limited and
constrained resources. Shifting power and
positions in local politics has had its own
impact on the overall business ecosystem and
its continuing performance as well as future
prospects. While navigating these challenges,
DLMI remained well on track with our current
performance and future growth plans. Most
importantly, as a business, we remained strong
in responding to the external headwinds. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
