document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 59, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Esg Review
How We Are Governed
Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023
Management Discussion & Analysis
INTRODUCTION
Heineken Malaysia Berhad’s business
is all about transcending borders and
connecting people through good times,
one way or another. Indeed, we can
often find beer at the center of social
connections, and this is why our purpose,
Brew the Joy of True Togetherness to
Inspire a Better World, defines everything
we do. After a strong rebound in 2022,
expectations for 2023 were high, however
it proved to be a more challenging year. I
am proud of the resilience of our business
and our people, as we pushed flat out
to deliver a commendable performance
despite the challenges. We have made
good progress on our EverGreen strategy
and will continue to accelerate initiatives
designed to help us meet our strategic
goals not only for the short term, but also
with the aim to future proof our business. We had to adapt to the evolving
environment with challenges that included
global macroeconomic uncertainties,
geopolitical tensions, a weakening Ringgit,
rising costs of living, and softening
consumer sentiments.
[MDA_P003]
These factors
contributed to a market correction
in 2023, which saw market demand
gradually normalise as compared against
the strong rebound we saw in 2022 after
pandemic-related restrictions were lifted. It is important to note that despite the
market correction, our strategy to enable
balanced growth is bearing fruits, with our
performance still above the pre-pandemic
levels of 2019. We are taking bold moves under the
EverGreen strategy. Indeed, we have built
strong momentum across our five key
strategic pillars: emphasising consumer
and customer-centricity as we shape
the future of beer and beyond to drive
superior growth; growing productivity and
a cost conscious culture with an aim to
unlock efficiencies that can be reinvested
to power our growth engine; raising the
bar on sustainability and responsibility
to deliver our net zero ambition; boosting
digitalisation of our processes to
become the best-connected brewer; and
developing our talent and capabilities to
strengthen a culture of high performance. With EverGreen, we are future-proofing
HEINEKEN Malaysia to be a continually
renewing, learning, and growing company
to deliver superior and balanced growth.
[MDA_P004]
The following is a review of our business
and financial performance, the highlights
of our commercial campaigns, the
progress of our sustainability goals, as well
as the outlook for 2024. OUR PERFORMANCE
Compared with our 2022 performance,
Group revenue decreased by 8%, mainly
due to weak consumer sentiment
attributed to growing macroeconomic
concerns. Comparatively, the Group had
a strong base in 2022 following the re-
opening of the economy at the end of
the Covid-19 pandemic. Post the strong
rebound in 2022, the Group views its
2023 performance as a form of market
correction. Group Profit Before Tax declined by 14%
to RM511 million, primarily due to lower
revenue. Comparatively, the Group’s net
profit for the year decreased by 6% due to
the absence of the one-off Prosperity Tax in
the year under review. Corresponding with
the above, earnings per share decreased
from RM1.37 to RM1.28 per share. Net cash from operating activities for
FY2023 increased by 25% to RM584
million attributed to overall favorable
working capital movement. The Group has
improved its capital efficiency through
entering into a factoring arrangement in
FY2023.
[MDA_P008]
Tiger partnered with three
local artists to create a CNY song and
music video, ‘The Boldest Chase’, inviting
consumers to interact with the content
and win exclusive prizes. Tiger has been
on a journey of overcoming the odds since
1932, and the brand believes that much
of its success is owed to its loyal fans. The brand brought to life an activation
called ‘Tiger Den’ – dubbed as the home
of all things Tiger – for fans to join the
brand to celebrate its bold stride since the
beginning and to continue roaring into the
future. From learning more about Tiger’s
origins since the early 1900s to bask in
the nostalgia of its evolution at Heritage
Street, to going on a journey through a
series of interactive experiences via AI at
the AR-ffiti Street and Crystal Cold Room,
the brand set itself apart as a distinctly
Asian lager with the remarkable Tiger Den. Guinness Malaysia’s 2023 St. Patrick’s
celebration, ‘Our Day to Remember’,
encouraged its fans to celebrate their
loved ones – their true lucky charms –
while commemorating the good times
with Guinness.
[MDA_P013]
Who We Are
Our Business Model
Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Management Discussion & Analysis
We are pleased to report that we are
making good progress against our Brew
a Better World goals. Nevertheless, we
continue exploring innovative solutions to
accelerate our journey towards ensuring
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s sustainable
growth for the future. HEINEKEN
Malaysia strongly believes that its
operations can only thrive if the planet
and its surrounding communities thrive. Throughout the year, the Group was
widely recognised for the progress we
continue to make on our sustainability
ambitions. Some key awards include:
•
UN Global Compact Network
Malaysia and Brunei (UNGCMYB)
Forward Faster Sustainability
Awards – HEINEKEN Malaysia won
in the Water Resilience category,
acknowledging the brewer’s
achievement in its Towards Healthy
Watersheds programme, which
enabled it to fully balance water used
in its products since 2020.
