document_id: MDA_5202_MSM_2023
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 70, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MSM
AT A GLANCE
A PERSPECTIVE FROM
OUR LEADERSHIP
OUR APPROACH TO
VALUE CREATION
OUR GROUP
BUSINESS REVIEW
MSM Malaysia Holdings Berhad
Sustainable Excellence Through Integration
GROUP FINANCIAL
REVIEW
DR MAZATUL 'AINI SHAHAR
ABDUL MALEK SHAHAR, FCA
Chief Financial Officer
OVERVIEW OF GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
MSM Group has made considerable progress in revitalising the company,
as demonstrated by the notable enhancement in performance despite
narrowed losses throughout the fiscal year 2023 compared to the
preceding year. While the journey has not been without its challenges,
including heightened input costs, currency fluctuations, and regulatory
constraints in Malaysia, the Group has successfully managed to navigate
these hurdles. Despite facing pressures on profit margins and overall financial stability
due to the aforementioned factors, strategic initiatives and improvements
in production processes have allowed us to overcome these obstacles and
chart a path towards a more promising financial future. Regarding the regulatory price ceiling in the Wholesale segment,
we acknowledge the government’s acknowledgment of the systemic
anomaly affecting packed sugar prices in Malaysia.
[MDA_P005]
SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
AT MSM
ACCOUNTABILITY &
TRANSPARENCY
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Annual Integrated Report
Group Financial
Review
OUTLOOK
While the Group has experienced financial improvements in the last quarter
of the year, we recognise the challenges that still lie ahead. The path towards
financial stability and sustainable profitability is an ongoing journey that
requires our diligent focus and proactive strategy. Looking ahead, our finance department is dedicated in a strategy that prioritises
prudent financial management, risk mitigation, and operational streamlining. We are committed to leverage data-driven insights and inventive methods to
optimize our operations, enhance decision-making, and drive sustainable
growth. Our mission is to foster a culture of teamwork and forward-thinking,
acting as strategic partners to the operational, commercial, and strategic
division within the Group. With determination and a shared vision, we’re united
in our pursuit of a stronger, more resilient financial footing.
[MDA_P006]
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue
For the financial year under review, the Group’s revenue grew by 20% from
RM2.57 billion in FY2022 to RM3.09 billion as sales volume picked up along
with market recovery. The growth in revenue reflected the successful price
management strategies implemented since the previous year, also contributed
by our new premium Gula Super product which was well received by the
market since its launch in mid-2023. The domestic market continues to be an important segment for our revenue
growth. Revenue from Domestic sales grew 18% from the year before; closing
at RM2.4 billion in FY2023; contributing 79% of the Group’s total revenue. Export revenue also grew steadily, reaching RM637 million in FY2023, up by
20% from the prior year. Profitability
On the back of higher revenue, the Group’s profitability improved significantly
with a healthy Gross Profit of RM79 million, up from a gross loss of
RM46 million in FY2022. Profit from operations also rose to RM12 million
from a loss from operations of RM151 million a year ago. Closing the year, the
Group recorded a loss before tax (LBT) of RM28 million from RM179 million in
the previous year.
[MDA_P007]
This marked improvement was a result of a concerted focus
on cost optimisation initiatives, operational excellence, margin improvements,
better supply chain management as well as sustainability initiatives, which
helped to mitigate the impact of higher input costs and rising energy prices. Finance costs and Gearing Ratio
The Group’s total borrowings has increased to RM1.1 billion, up from
RM879 million in the prior year. The increase in total borrowings is driven
by higher trade facility utilisation on accounts of higher raw sugar costs and
weakening of Ringgit Malaysia. As a consequence, finance cost has also
increased from RM32 million in FY2022 to RM48 million in FY2023. At the
year end, MSM’s gearing stood at 37%, increased from 31% in the prior year. Taxation
The Group recorded a higher tax expense of RM21 million in FY2023, as
compared to a net tax credit in the prior year. Notably, the effective tax rate
was 75%, higher than the Malaysian income tax rate of -24% due to the loss
recorded in the prior year at the Group level, as well as deferred tax assets
not recognised in a subsidiary.
[MDA_P024]
SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW
AT MSM
ACCOUNTABILITY &
TRANSPARENCY
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Annual Integrated Report
Market
Landscape
OUTLOOK
In 2024, it is anticipated that raw sugar prices will show an upward trend,
influenced by expectations of a production shortfall in the global sugar
markets for the 2023/24 (October 2023 – September 2024) season. It's projected that worldwide production will decline from the record highs
of the previous season, while consumption is set to hit new peaks due to
increasing demand in countries like India and Pakistan. The forecast for global sugar production in 2023/24 is around 175.5
million metric tonnes, marking a 2% reduction, or a decrease of 3.6 million
metric tonnes, compared to the 2022/23 season. This decline is largely
due to anticipated lower yields in key sugar-producing nations, notably
Thailand and India, primarily because of the drier weather conditions
associated with the current El Nino event. BRAZIL
Brazil is forecasted to see a significant increase in sugar production,
rising by 3.0 million tonnes to nearly 41.0 million tonnes.
