document_id: MDA_6203_KHEESAN_2024
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 15, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
[MDA_P002]
The Group reported revenue of RM52.3 million for the current financial year, marking a decline of RM3.3 million,
or 6%, as compared to the previous financial year. This decrease is primarily attributed to a reduction in sales
orders from the local market. The Group achieved a gross profit of RM13.5 million in the current financial year, reflecting a gross profit margin
of 25.8%. This represents an improvement over the previous financial year's gross profit of RM11.8 million or
21.2%. The Group's profit after tax for the current financial year was RM0.8 million, marking a decrease of RM0.9 million
as compared to the previous financial year. There is a decrease in profit after tax as there was a reversal of
deferred tax liabilities of RM1.3 million that boost the result of the Group in the financial year 2023. Without the
effect from the reversal of deferred tax liabilities in FYE 2023, result of the Group was consistent as compared
to FYE 2023 largely due to the Group's higher gross profit margin, stringent cost management, and
improvements in production efficiency.
[MDA_P004]
For FYE 2024, there was a slight increase in total assets as compared to FYE 2023. This increase was driven
by several factors:
However, these increases were partially offset by a decrease in property, plant, and equipment. The reduction
in property, plant and equipment amounted to RM2 million, which was mainly attributable to the depreciation of
property, plant and equipment. As of 30 June 2024, total liabilities stood at RM148.5 million, reflecting a minor increase of RM0.5 million from
RM148 million reported in the previous year. There were no significant changes in liabilities as compared to the
prior year. Correspondingly, Shareholders’ Equity has improved from deficit RM77.4 million to deficit RM76.6 million
primarily due to the factors mentioned above. The Group’s net cash generated from operating activities improved to RM2.2 million for the current financial
year, compared to a net cash outflow of RM0.9 million in the previous financial year. In terms of investing activities, the Group used RM0.1 million in net cash, a slight decrease from the RM0.3
million used in the prior year. This indicates minimal change in investing cash flows compared to the previous
year.
[MDA_P006]
The Group’s revenue performance for FYE 2024 and FYE 2023 on a geographical market segment basis is as follows:
3. GROUP REVENUE PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
RM MILLION
FYE 2023
Domestic Market
Export Market
Total
39.8
15.8
55.6
FYE 2024
33.4
18.9
52.3
In FYE 2024, the Group recorded total sales revenue of RM52.3 million of which the domestic sales accounted for
64% and the export sales accounted for the balance of 36%. The main sales product category of the Group is Candy. The Candy segment comprises the majority of the Group’s revenue and was the main contributor of the Group. The
bestselling product was the Fruitplus range of chewy candies whilst Torrone Barley Mint hard candies were an
iconic product which was easily recognisable as it has been present in the market for over three decades. The
overall market condition remained strong for the segment with strong demand for the chewy and soft candy
products. The Group’s production operations are based at its plant located in Seri Kembangan, Selangor which produces
the candy products. The Group’s operation capacity is sufficient to meet the market demand. The Group is
currently operating 8 lines of operational production lines.
[MDA_P008]
Whilst the Group has established a strong footing in the domestic market, it has made significant headwinds to
grow its export markets. The Group currently exports to over 20 countries with major destinations being China,
Hong Kong, Vietnam, Japan, South Africa and other Asia Pacific countries. For the domestic market, the focus
will be on widening its coverage to all the various retail sales point across both the wholesale and modern
distribution channels. These sales points can range from 24-hour convenient stores, to the various big
hypermarket chains. Sales and Marketing
The Group sells its products via two distribution channels, through wholesale and modern distribution
channels. In an effort to achieve higher sales volume, the Group distributes its products via both the wholesale and
modern distribution channels in Malaysia. For export sales, our distribution network extends across countries
in Asia, Europe, Africa and Middle East. Labour shortages and wage fluctuations
The Group’s production activities are labour intensive in nature, thus it is prone to labour shortages.
[MDA_P009]
By the
same, it is also subject to wage fluctuations as the increase in minimum wage level in peninsular Malaysia. In
an effort to reduce the over-reliance to the labour issues, the Group will continue to invest in automating the
production operation. Fluctuation of raw materials price
The fluctuation of raw materials’ prices has been an inherent issue for the Group, as well as its competitors in
the similar industry. As an example, sugar price fluctuations may severely impact the Group as it is a major
component of the Group’s products. Realising this issue, the Group has taken necessary steps to reduce the
risk of constant price fluctuations by engaging with its various raw material suppliers to strive for favourable
longer-term supply arrangements. At the same time, the Group are constantly exploring with new suppliers to
ensure that it is not overly dependent and reliant on its current key suppliers. The Group shall ensure that these
initiatives are carried out without compromising its products quality.
