document_id: MDA_8478_HWATAI_2023
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 12, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONS REVIEWS (continued)
In the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“FYE2023”), Hwa Tai reported a marginal revenue increase to
RM80.68 million, marking a 5.80% rise from FYE2022. This growth was primarily driven by increased sales in
local markets across Peninsular Malaysia, East Malaysia, and e-commerce platforms. Despite facing logistical
challenges such as fluctuating currency exchange rates and supply chain disruptions, our export sales remained
resilient, maintaining parity with the previous year’s performance. Operating in an increasingly competitive market, the Group faced higher operating costs in FYE2023, primarily
attributed to escalating raw material and labor expenses. Total expenses increased marginally to RM25.74 million,
reflecting investments in advertising, promotions, staff, and depreciation. Other income remained steady, derived
from interests earned and proceeds from asset disposals. Despite efforts to mitigate losses, Hwa Tai reported a loss of RM7.10 million in FYE2023, compared to RM5.83
million in FYE2022. This loss was primarily driven by increased operating costs and challenges in international
markets.
[MDA_P002]
However, our commitment to innovation, operational efficiency, and customer engagement remains
unwavering. FINANCIAL POSITION
The table below highlights the Group’s financial position in FYE2023 and FYE2022:
FYE2023
RM’000
FYE2022
RM’000
Total assets
96,847
72,219
Total liabilities
70,163
56,371
Shareholders’ equity
26,665
15,827
Total borrowings
(Secured lease liabilities were excluded)
29,859
28,503
Cash, bank balances and short-term deposits
7,607
6,080
Net assets per share (sen)
35.63
21.15
Loss per share (sen)
(9.49)
(7.81)
In FYE2023, Hwa Tai witnessed a significant improvement in shareholders’ equity, which increased to RM26.66
million, attributed mainly to property revaluation. Total assets and liabilities also saw notable increases, reflecting
growth in trade receivables, inventories, and borrowings. Cash reserves improved slightly, reaching RM7.61 million. Despite the loss incurred, net assets per share increased to 35.63 sen, reflecting the Company’s strengthened
financial position. Investments in capital expenditure focused on machinery upgrades and factory renovations, underscoring our
commitment to enhancing production efficiency and technological capabilities.
[MDA_P004]
HWA TAI
INDUSTRIES
BERHAD
annual
report
p a g e
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS
Hwa Tai remains committed to innovation, customer expansion, and operational excellence. Our Research and
Development division continues to focus on product innovation and market research to meet evolving consumer
preferences. Expansion into new markets, product diversification, and e-commerce initiatives are key strategies to
drive growth. Operational improvements, including factory upgrades and machinery investments, aim to enhance efficiency
and product quality while mitigating risks associated with labor shortages and fluctuating raw material prices. Comprehensive quality control measures ensure product safety and compliance with industry standards. Business Strategies:
1. Innovation and Product Development: Hwa Tai’s Research and Development division remains dedicated
to continuous innovation and product development. We prioritize creating healthier product options and
enhancing our existing product portfolio to align with evolving consumer preferences. 2. Market Expansion: To drive growth, we are actively expanding our customer base both locally and
internationally.
[MDA_P006]
Strengths: Internal factors that give Hwa Tai a competitive advantage, such as innovation, market expansion,
e-commerce initiatives, operational efficiency, and brand recognition. Weaknesses: Internal factors that may hinder Hwa Tai’s performance or competitive position, such as dependency
on R&D, risks associated with market expansion, challenges in e-commerce implementation, operational complexity,
and competitive pressure. Opportunities: External factors that Hwa Tai could capitalize on to achieve growth and success, such as health and
wellness trends, global market expansion, digital transformation, strategic partnerships, and brand differentiation. Threats: External factors that pose risks or challenges to Hwa Tai’s business, such as market saturation, regulatory
compliance, economic uncertainty, technological disruptions, and supply chain disruptions. SWOT offers a clear and concise understanding of Hwa Tai’s strategic position in the market, facilitating informed
decision-making and strategic planning for the company’s future endeavors. STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
(CONTINUED)
[MDA_P007]
HWA TAI
INDUSTRIES
BERHAD
annual
report
p a g e
BUSINESS STRATEGICS AND RISK FACTORS (continued)
Risk Factors:
1. Market Competition: The biscuit manufacturing industry is highly competitive, with the emergence of new
players and changing consumer preferences. Intensifying competition may put pressure on profit margins
and market share. 2. Raw Material Price Volatility: Fluctuations in the prices of raw materials, such as wheat, sugar, and packaging
materials, pose a significant risk to our profitability. Sudden price increases could impact production costs
and erode margins if not adequately managed. 3. Supply Chain Disruptions: Disruptions in the supply chain, whether due to natural disasters, geopolitical
tensions, or transportation issues, could disrupt production schedules and impact our ability to fulfill customer
orders on time. 4. Consumer Demand Shifts: Changes in consumer preferences, dietary trends, or economic conditions may
impact demand for our products. Failure to anticipate and adapt to these shifts could result in inventory
imbalances and decreased sales. 5.
