document_id: MDA_4707_NESTLE_2020
dimension_code: AR01
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 20, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management
Discussion & Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
At the very onset of the pandemic, we quickly realigned our
priorities significantly to ramp up safety, health and preventive
measures for our people and to preserve operational
continuity. We focused increasingly on the pressing needs of
communities, whether it be through providing nourishment
with our high-quality products, or via outreach and support
programmes. As a result of our efforts to sustain business growth while
meeting the needs of Malaysians, we recorded a turnover
of RM5.4 billion for the financial year. This result balanced
the severe impact to out-of-home channels, with an
acceleration of in-home consumption. The Group’s core F&B
businesses grew by 2.3% on the back of solid sales execution
and effective marketing and communication campaigns. The Group registered a resilient profit after tax of RM552.7
million and a profit before tax of RM724.8 million, with strong
cash flow results preserving the solid financial position of the
Company in a difficult year.
[MDA_P002]
OPERATIONAL & BUSINESS REVIEW
Every challenge also brings new opportunities, and our teams
remained focused, proactive and entrepreneurial to tap into
each potential opportunity. Nestlé Malaysia
continued to
demonstrate resilience
throughout the year,
weathering through
a global pandemic to
turn in another stable
performance for 2020. Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
[MDA_P003]
15. Annua l Revie w
Our business focus continued to build on the pillars of
previous years, namely:
1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum;
2. Continue nurturing the love and trust in our brands;
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for the
future; and
4. Leading the industry’s way into a greener future. 1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum
As more people stayed at home due to movement restrictions,
we found new ways to engage consumers via digital tools and
explored innovative approaches to help deliver our products
to consumers. Underpinning this was our manufacturing
and supply chain resilience which allowed us to maintain
operational continuity, coupled with excellence in sales
execution supported by our best-in-class sales force to ensure
on-shelf availability. Driving digital engagement and e-commerce
Throughout the year, we continued to engage our consumers
digitally and further ramped up our online activations. We explored new models such as live streaming and shifted
from traditional product launches to online events, offering
consumers an interactive online shopping experience and
successfully increasing our reach.
[MDA_P005]
Our Ready-to-Drink (RTD) business also further expanded
their presence online – making a wider range of Nestlé
products available for online purchase, as well as rolling out a
new home delivery option for RTD products such as MILO and
NESCAFÉ Original cans. Supporting out-of-home operators
Conscious of the profound impact to out-of-home channels,
the NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL team focused on supporting
local F&B operators impacted by COVID-19. Through the
Bangkit Bersama Nestlé campaign, we rolled out trade
assistance programmes and provided cash contributions to
help support coffee shops, mamak shops and other eateries
and restaurants. This saw us channelling a total of RM5 million
to more than 15,000 local F&B operators to help keep their
businesses afloat. In addition, we reached out to professional chefs nationwide
via an online cooking competition, MAGGI Wok Bersamamu,
with cash prizes up for grabs. Chefs were able to take part
by uploading videos of themselves cooking creative dishes
utilising MAGGI professional products and demonstrating
their culinary skills.
[MDA_P006]
Manufacturing and supply chain excellence
Throughout the pandemic, we upheld our commitment
to ensure continued production and delivery of our foods
and beverages to consumers. Our manufacturing, supply
chain and distribution operations demonstrated remarkable
resilience and agility, allowing us to provide Malaysians with
a stable supply of essential products across our brands such
as MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ, whilst strictly adhering to the
safety requirements set by the Government. Best-in-class sales execution
Serving a wide spectrum of customers and consumers
throughout the nation with diverse preferences and
requirements, our extensive sales network continued to play
a core role in driving performance and ensuring continuous
availability of products for all Malaysians during the pandemic. Our sales force plays a decisive contribution to revenue growth. Working as a cohesive unit together with other functions,
brands and geographies in Malaysia, this enables our sales
team to keep a pulse on evolving needs of the retail ecosystem.
[MDA_P011]
17. Annua l Revie w
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for
the future
To future-proof the business, it is vital to reinforce our
foundation and build the necessary capabilities to keep us
competitive and ahead of the game. Harnessing digital technology to enhance operations
We constantly seek out opportunities to increase efficiency
in our operations and to tap on to digital transformation to
facilitate continuous improvement. During the year, we were one of the first Nestlé markets to
adopt a new technology to enhance the efficiency of land
transportation of products from our distribution centre. Optimising logistical routes by utilising data analytics and
digital tools, this allows us to reduce our carbon footprint
and logistics costs, proving that environmental and cost
efficiencies can be achieved together. Diversity and gender balance
As part of our commitment to cultivate a fair and equitable
organisational culture, we continued to promote diversity
and gender balance across the Group.
