document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2024
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 44, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
HEINEKEN Malaysia delivered
strong financial results in 2024,
showing significant progress
from the previous year, fueled
by strategic marketing efforts
and the successful launch
of innovation products that
resonated well with consumers. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
At HEINEKEN Malaysia, we are guided by our purpose, ‘Brew
the Joy of True Togetherness to Inspire a Better World’, creating
memorable experiences that bring people together and foster a
sense of community. We have remained resilient amidst challenges
by aligning our initiatives with our growth strategy, EverGreen, to
future-proof our business. A key aspect of this strategy is to drive
superior growth by investing in our brands and diversifying our
offerings to cater to evolving consumer preferences, ensuring we
meet market demands. This approach, coupled with a cost and
value optimisation mindset to fund our growth, has enabled us to
achieve financial growth despite external pressures.
[MDA_P002]
We continue
to invest in becoming the best-connected brewer, raising the bar
on sustainability and responsibility and unlocking the potential of
our people to be in a strong position to seize future opportunities. Looking ahead, we aim to continue advancing our journey
of learning and growth through our EverGreen strategy and
continue to deliver balanced growth. The following is a review of
our financial performance, operational progress, sustainability
and responsibility efforts and our outlook for 2025. OUR PERFORMANCE
In
2024,
our
Company
demonstrated
strong
financial
performance, marking a significant improvement over the
previous year. HEINEKEN Malaysia Group achieved a total
revenue of RM2.80 billion, marking a 6% increase from the
previous year’s RM2.64 billion. The Group also recorded a 21% rise
in net profit, growing from RM387 million in FY2023 to RM467
million in FY2024. This growth was driven by strategic commercial
initiatives, including targeted marketing campaigns and the
successful launch of innovation products that resonated well with
consumers.
[MDA_P007]
This creative approach kept Heineken® part of the festivities
while in compliance with local law. The creative activation
earned multiple accolades, including Bronze for the Cannes Lion
International Festival of Creativity and Kancil Awards. We continued to innovate with Heineken® Refresh – a unique music
discovery platform enhancing social experiences. The “Refresh
Your Music, Refresh Your Nights,” initiative encourages fans to
explore new sounds and discover fresh tracks. The Heineken® Fresh
List on Spotify offers an exhilarating digital experience, powered
by the Heineken® Refreshing Algorithm, which introduced tracks
outside common preferences. We successfully brought together
18,000 fans at the finale of Heineken® Refresh event to discover
new music together for an unforgettable experience. Recognising the surge in online gaming, especially simulator
racing, we introduced Heineken® Player 0.0, an innovative mobile
simulator racing competition promoting responsible consumption
through engaging digital experiences. This connected with
digitally savvy audiences by blending the excitement of gaming
with our no alcohol offering – Heineken® 0.0.
[MDA_P014]
In
addition to the above, we were honoured at the Effie Awards,
MAD Stars Awards 2024 and the Media Specialists Association
Awards, highlighting our brands' excellence in creating campaigns
that deeply resonate with our audiences. This success is driven by
our strategic use of digital platforms, cultural insights, innovative
technology and data applications. BECOME THE BEST-CONNECTED BREWER
We continue to strengthen our position as the best-connected
brewer, one of the key pillars of our EverGreen strategy. We
launched eazle, an innovative eCommerce platform to improve
order management for independent shops, restaurants and
bars. The user-friendly interface and robust features have driven
customer satisfaction and loyalty, laying a strong foundation
for future growth. We are confident that eazle will play a crucial
role in our long-term strategy, delivering sustained value to our
customers. Our Drinkies Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) platform also
triumphed at the Asian Experience Awards 2024 for its user-
friendly features and personalised recommendations, setting a
new benchmark for digital interaction in the beverage industry.
