document_id: MDA_3255_HEIM_2021
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 73, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
Annual REPORT 2021 | HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Sustainability
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers & Other
Information
After a difficult 2020 due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, we went into
2021 hopeful of continued recovery. The
prolonged restrictions and lockdowns
had adversely impacted the Group’s
business performance in the previous
year and dampened economic recovery
in the country. To protect our business,
adapt to the new realities and accelerate
recovery, we front-loaded our cost and
value initiatives by right-sizing our cost
base and the organisation. These bold
moves were crucial to help the Group
navigate the crisis whilst building for a
stronger future. Unfortunately, due to the continued spike
in COVID-19 cases, the Government
announced another lockdown which
took effect in June 2021. For the second
time in two years, we had to suspend
our brewery operations for 11 weeks
from June 2021 to August 2021, whilst
operating restrictions were once again
imposed on food & beverage (F&B)
outlets, which continued until Q4.
[MDA_P003]
The
pause in our brewery operations was
significantly longer than the seven
week stoppage we faced in 2020 due to
the first MCO and this impeded on the
Group’s ability to conduct our normal
business operations. Nevertheless, I am pleased to share that
the bold moves we took proved effective
and helped to mitigate the adverse
impacts of the longer pause in our
operations. The following is a review of
our business performance, highlights of
our marketing campaigns, as well as our
sustainability progress. OUR PERFORMANCE
Despite a longer lockdown, Group
revenue increased by 12% in FY21 to
RM1.98 billion, mainly due to improved
revenue management and improved
agility in managing our supply chain that
helped mitigate the adverse impacts of
the pause in our brewery operations. The improvement in revenue, coupled
with highly disciplined cost management,
enabled the Group’s Profit Before Tax
(PBT) to grow by 62% in FY21 to RM321
million.
[MDA_P009]
I am pleased to share that our world-
class brands continued to be recognised
by consumers amongst Malaysia’s most
trusted and preferred brands at the
Putra Brand Awards 2021. Heineken®
and Tiger won Gold, and Guinness took
home a Silver award. The triple win brings
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s total awards tally
at Putra Brand Awards to 36 awards since
2010. CARE FOR PEOPLE & PLANET
Our performance was made possible by
the resilience and commitment of our
One Strong Winning Team at HEINEKEN
Malaysia. Navigating through the storm
whilst building for the future, we kept an
all hands on deck approach by keeping
the team connected and motivated
through regular communications and
updates, despite the many uncertainties
in the external environment. Building on our experience in the previous
year, our team had adapted to the new
normal and leveraged agile ways of
working to unlock greater efficiency and
productivity. This enabled us to be better
prepared and mitigated the adverse
impacts of the 11-week suspension of
operations at our brewery, compared with
the 7-week stoppage in the previous year. Our priority has always been to safeguard
the health and safety of our people.
[MDA_P011]
We acknowledge that we have more to do
to support more women to grow with us,
especially in our Sales and Supply Chain
functions, which are traditionally male-
dominated. Representation alone is not sufficient,
we are committed to train 100% of our
people managers on inclusive leadership
practices by 2023. In 2021, we had
already trained 80% of our people
managers and we are on track to meet
this target to create a more inclusive and
diverse workforce at HEINEKEN Malaysia. In 2022, we will be launching a new set of
HEINEKEN Behaviours to complement our
refreshed Purpose and Values. Once again,
continued engagement with employees
will be key to build and sustain a culture
of high performance to shape our future
growth journey. I am pleased to share that
our world-class brands
continued to be recognised
by consumers amongst
Malaysia’s
most trusted
and preferred
brands at the Putra
Brand Awards 2021.”
[MDA_P015]
Since 1994, the
Tiger CECC has raised more than RM361
million for schools across Malaysia,
enabling the enhancement of teaching
and learning environments through
upgrade of facilities and amenities that
has benefitted multiple generations of
students who go on to contribute to
Malaysia’s growth. In 2021, HEINEKEN Malaysia was
accepted as one of the 54 members of
the CEO Action Network (CAN), a closed-
door peer-to-peer informal network of
CEOs and Board members focused on
sustainability advocacy, capacity building,
action and performance. Through a
dedicated Working Group, Workstreams
and active members driving bespoke
initiatives, CAN aspires to catalyse its
members towards shaping future-ready
and ESG-integrated business models
and ecosystems. As a member, we are
committed to engage with various
stakeholders including our supply chain,
regulators and policy makers, government,
as well as our peers across various sectors
to forge partnerships that are committed
In 2021, we trained 80%
of our people managers
on inclusive leadership
practices. We are on track
to reach 100% by 2023.
