document_id: MDA_7237_PWROOT_2023
dimension_code: AR04
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 12, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
AR 2023
China and Hong Kong were among the last countries to
reopen their borders, with China doing so on 1 January
2023 and Hong Kong in February 2023. There was little
movement in our activities in these countries for FY 2023
but we have observed that economic recovery is underway
and we expect our activities to pick up further in the year
ahead. PRODUCTION
Improved production efficiency and capacity, reduce
downtime, improved supply chain and inventory
management and better management of labour costs were
some of the Group’s operational achievements in FY 2023. Production Facilities and Product Management
We increased the instant powder (IP) production capacity at
our plant with the commencement of an additional 10-lane
machine which had its first commercial run in producing
Alicafé Black Gold (2g pure coffee) in November 2022. This investment resulted in an increase in IP production
capacity by 6%. Beverage capacity was also increased with an additional
deionised water station installed for our canning lines.
[MDA_P004]
Furthermore, Power Root has enhanced our production
capability with our own newly-commissioned coffee bean
roasting plant which will enable us to produce micro ground
coffee as raw material for our products. This capability gives
us the option of producing assorted varieties of coffee in
the future. As a start, we are focusing on the production
of our own black coffee. Talent Recruitment and Workforce Efficiency
Such investments and production efficiencies are partially
the result of successful recruitment of experienced
personnel with the right skills and knowledge and are able
to advise on increasing and optimising in output, alleviate
bottlenecks on the line, and streamline processes and
workflow. The Group improved its workforce efficiencies this financial
year with the resumption of foreign worker availability. Previously, closed borders and restrictions had brought
about increased competition for eligible local workers
resulting in a low-supply, high-wages labour market. The
return of foreign workers (principally Nepalese workers)
has led to better workforce management and will help in
cost management.
[MDA_P008]
On 3 July 2023, the Group paid a fourth interim single tier
dividend of 2.0 sen per ordinary share and a special interim
single tier dividend of 1.5 sen per ordinary share amounting
to RM15.8 million in respect of the current financial year. The Board did not recommend the payment of any final
dividend in respect of the FY 2023. As such, the total dividends paid for FY 2023 is 11.75
sen per ordinary share amounting to RM50.5 million,
representing a dividend pay-out ratio of approximately
84.9%. The Group’s dividend policy is to maintain a minimum of
50% dividend pay-out ratio. Since our listing on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in 2007, the Group has paid
out a total of RM437.0 million in dividends, representing
a dividend pay-out ratio of approximately 86.4%. It is our
intention to continue to reward our shareholders for their
loyalty and participation in our growth. BUSINESS OUTLOOK
Power Root will continue with our push for excellence in
performance and business sustainability in the coming
financial year, with financial and operational discipline being
a priority.
[MDA_P009]
The ROI mindset is being embedded across all
departments – manufacturing, supply chain, Research &
Development, Marketing, Sales and all support functions
– and we will continue to focus on it. While we have improved efficiency in the past few years,
there are still measures to be taken to optimise our
operations. The Group will continue to utilise technology
in this respect. The Sales Force Automation system which
we have started using will be fully implemented this coming
financial year; we also plan to roll out the Route-to-Market
software which will assist our sales team in optimising route
planning for better effectiveness when making site visits. A proof of delivery system which tracks on-time deliveries
will also be implemented this year. On the manufacturing floor, we are looking at more effective
utilisation of manpower, streamlining measures, and further
material wastage reduction. We will also explore new
marketing streams and collaborative partnership which are
advantageous in promoting our brands. Ultimately, Power Root will be adaptable to meet changing
consumer demand for quality products which gives good
value for money, and nimble in adjusting to market changes.
[MDA_P010]
AREAS OF RISK
The uncertain global economic outlook raises pricing and
supply risk concerns, with rising inflation expected to
influence raw material and labour costs. Power Root is
taking measures to manage its impact through sourcing
and costing initiatives; however, our business is highly
sensitive to commodity prices and supply. Similarly, we
are not immune to foreign exchange fluctuations although
hedging measures are in place. The prolonged war in the
Ukraine and domestic economic cost-of-living factors are
also potential areas of concern. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
cont’d
