document_id: MDA_4065_PPB_2021
dimension_code: AR03
context_scope: dimension_specific_selected_paragraphs_only
source_features_json:
{"coverage_map": {"business": true, "drivers": true, "financial": true, "outlook": true, "risk": true}, "has_financial_or_business_or_risk_or_outlook": true, "paragraph_count": 33, "section_count": 1, "section_headings": ["Unknown"]}
selected_paragraphs:
[MDA_P002]
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Dear Shareholders,
The PPB Group performed satisfactorily in 2021 despite the continuing COVID-19 pandemic. Notwithstanding the difficulties faced by our businesses, the Group results remained stable, due
largely to the contribution from Wilmar International Limited (“Wilmar”). Group revenue was 16% higher at RM4.86 billion (2020: RM4.19 billion), with revenue increase
in all business segments. Group pre-tax profit was also higher, with a 5% increase to RM1.50
billion (2020: RM1.42 billion), mainly due to a higher share of results of Wilmar of RM1.50
billion (2020: RM1.24 billion). “
“
Economic and Operating Environment in 2021
The Malaysian economy registered positive growth of 3.6% in the fourth quarter of 2021. This was supported mainly by improved domestic
demand as economic activities recovered following the easing of containment measures under the National Recovery Plan (“NRP”). The Group performance improved gradually with our business segments adapting to the new normalcy in line with the NRP. The Grains
and Agribusiness segment recorded a small profit despite challenging business conditions.
[MDA_P003]
Notably, our Film Exhibition and Distribution
segment had a strong close in the fourth quarter of the year, as the relaxation of COVID-19 standard operating procedures (“SOP”) and
strong movie title releases mitigated the segment loss. The Group will continue optimising and managing costs, focusing on operational excellence and new business initiatives for additional
revenue streams. Lim Soon Huat
Managing Director
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y
FFM Grains and Mills’ flour mill in Pasir Gudang
[MDA_P004]
GRAINS AND AGRIBUSINESS SEGMENT
The Grains and Agribusiness segment is the largest contributor to Group revenue. This segment comprises Flour Milling, Feed Milling, Corn
Trading and Livestock Farming, contributing 78% of the Group’s revenue and 4% of profit in FY2021. FFM Berhad (“FFM”) Group, an 80% subsidiary of PPB, owns and operates nine flour mills, of which five are located in Malaysia, two in
Vietnam and one each in Indonesia and Thailand, with a total flour milling capacity of 7,540 MT/day. FFM also has 20% interest in eight
associates in China, which have a combined flour milling capacity of 18,950 MT/day. FFM also owns and operates five feed mills across Malaysia, with a total milling capacity amounting to 67,200 MT/month. The livestock farming operations comprise a layer farm in Trong, Perak and two breeder farms in Sua Betong, Negeri Sembilan and Gurun,
Kedah. The production capacity of the Trong layer farm is estimated at 21 million eggs per month, while the breeder farms have a combined
production capacity of about 3 million chicks per month.
[MDA_P005]
Flour Milling
Animal Feed Milling
Navigating the Pandemic
FFM Group’s increased revenue for 2021 was due to the higher
selling prices and sales volume in both Indonesia and Vietnam. The
rise in raw materials cost contributed to the increase in selling price
of flour; a portion of the cost increase being passed to customers. The increase in wheat prices and freight charges has intensified
market competition, and the price volatility had driven up the
cost of products. However, we leveraged on our Group’s extensive
experience in grains procurement, supply chain management and
technical competency to mitigate the adverse impact of the wheat
price volatility and supply chain disruption. FFM’s flour milling capacity has increased with the completion of
its new 500 MT/day wheat flour mill constructed by 51%-owned
VFM-Wilmar Flour Mills Co Ltd at its existing factory in Quang
Ninh Province, in northern Vietnam at an estimated cost of
USD20 million. Looking ahead, the domestic market growth looks more positive
after the opening of all economic sectors.
[MDA_P006]
However, we expect
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict to add more uncertainty and
volatility to the commodity market and cause greater disruption
to the global supply chain. This will continue to be a challenging
year. Notwithstanding the volatility of raw material prices and other
rising costs, we do not pass all cost increases to customers. The Animal Feed Milling’s business environment is uncertain due to market segment contraction as many high-volume customers switched
to home mixing or toll milling to cut costs. Previously, independent farmers had also abandoned the traditional farming model and opted
for an integrated farming scheme, which has an impact on independent feed millers.
[MDA_P007]
The Division has introduced a few measures to mitigate these challenges, such as increasing procurement efficiency and effectiveness,
improving and maintaining high-quality feed, adjusting the pricing to be more competitive and widening the customer base to avoid
dependence on a few key customers. While poultry farming continues to be pressured, the Division will continue to explore means of diversifying the feed ranges to other
segments such as ruminant feed, and also expansion of our customer base to cushion the impact of poultry integration. The Grains and Agribusiness segment saw lower sales in all business sectors due to various constraints caused by the
pandemic. Factory shutdown and labour shortages affected the production and sales of the Flour Milling Division. In the Animal Feed
Milling Division, the lower sales were attributable to the closure or lower sales volume of restaurants and food service outlets. Sales in
the Livestock Farming Division were affected by lower demand for DOC and table eggs; which was due to reduced or halted intake from
broiler farmers and reduction in egg production due to disease outbreaks.
